17:1
These things spake Jesus:
and lifting up his eyes into Heaven, he said:
Father,
the hour is come,
glorify thy Son,
that thy Son may glorify thee. As thou hast given him power over all flesh,
that all which thou hast given him, to them he may give life everlasting.

17:3
And this is life everlasting that they know thee, the only true God, and whom thou hast sent Jesus Christ.

17:4
I have glorified thee upon the earth:
I have consummated the work which thou gavest me to do:


17:5
and now glorify thou me O Father with thyself,
with the glory which I had before the world was,
with thee.

17:6
I have manifested thy name to the men whom thou gavest me out of the world.
Thine they were,
and to me thou gavest them:
and they have kept thy word.

17:7
Now they have known that all things which thou gavest me are from thee:

17:8
because the words which thou gavest me,
I have given them:
and they have received, and known in very deed that I came forth from thee,
and have believed that thou didst send me.

17:9
For them do I pray:
Not for the world do I pray, but for them whom thou hast given me;

17:10
because they be thine: and all things be thine, and thine be mine:
and I am glorified in them.
And now I am not in the world, and these are in the world, & I come to thee.

17:11
Holy father,
keep them in thy name,
whom thou hast given me;
that they may be one, as also we.

17:12
When I was with them, I kept them in thy name. Those whom thou gavest me,
have I kept:
and none of them perished, but the son of perdition,
that the scripture may be fulfilled.

17:13
And now I come to thee:
and these things I speak in the world,
that they may have my joy filled in themselves.

17:14
I have given them thy word, and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world:
as I also am not of the world.

17:15
I pray not that thou take them away out of the world, but that thou preserve them from evil.

17:16
Of the world they are not: as I also am not of the world.

17:17
Sanctify them in truth.
Thy word is truth.

17:18
As thou didst send me into the world, I also have sent them into the world.

17:19
And for them I do sanctify myself: that they also may be sanctified in truth.

17:20
And not for them only do I pray, but for them also that by their word shall believe in me: that they all may be one, as thou (Father) in me & I in thee; that they also in us may be one:
that the world may believe that thou hast sent me.

17:22
And the glory that thou hast given me, have I given to them; that they may be one as we also are one.

17:23
I in them,
and thou in me: that they may be consummate in one:
and the world may know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them,
as me also thou hast loved.

17:24
Father, whom thou hast given me, I will, that where I am, they also may be with me:
that they may see my glory which thou hast given me, because thou hast loved me before the creation of the world.

17:25
Just Father, the world hath not known thee.
But I have known thee:
and these have known, that thou didst send me.

17:26
And I have notified thy name to them, and will notify it:
that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them.

