7:1
After these things Jesus walked into Galilee, for he would not walk into Jewry: because the Jews sought to kill him.


7:2
And the festival day of the Jews, Scenopegia, was at hand.

7:3
And his brethren said to him: Pass from hence, and go into Jewry; that thy Disciples also may see thy works which thou doest.




7:4
For no man doeth any thing in secret, and seeketh himself to be in public. If thou do these things, manifest thyself to the world.



7:5
For neither did his brethren believe in him.

7:6
Jesus therefore saith to them: My time is not yet come; but your time is always ready.



7:7
The world cannot hate you, but me it hateth: because I give testimony of it, that the works thereof are evil.



7:8
Go you up to this festival day: I go not up to this festival day; because my time is not yet accomplished.


7:9
When he had said these things, himself tarried in Galilee.

7:10
But after his brethren were gone up, then he also went up to the festival day, not openly, but as it were in secret.

7:11
The Jews therefore sought him in the festival day, and said: Where is he?



7:12
And there was much murmuring in the multitude of him. For certain said: That he is good. And others said: No, but he seduceth the multitudes.





7:13
Yet no man spake openly of him for fear of the Jews.

7:14
And when the festivity was now half done, Jesus went up into the temple, and taught.


7:15
And the Jews marveled, saying: How doth this man know letters, whereas he hath not learned?



7:16
Jesus answered them, and said: My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me.




7:17
If any man will do the will of him, he shall understand of the doctrine whether it be of God, or I speak of myself.


7:18
He that speaketh of himself, seeketh his own glory. But he that seeketh the glory of him that sent him, he is true, and injustice in him there is not.



7:19
Did not Moyses give you the law, and none of you doeth the law?


7:20
Why seek you to kill me? The multitude answered, and said, Thou hast a devil, who seeketh to kill thee?





7:21
Jesus answered and said to them: One work I have done; and you do all marvel.




7:22
Therefore Moyses gave you circumcision: not that it is of Moyses, but of the fathers, and in the Sabboth you circumcise a man.


7:23
If a man receive circumcision in the Sabboth, that the law of Moyses be not broken; are you angry at me because I have healed a man wholly in the Sabboth?



7:24
Judge not according to the face, but judge just judgement.


7:25
Certain therefore of Jerusalem said: Is not this he whom they seek to kill?


7:26
And behold, he speaketh openly, and they say nothing to him. Have the Princes known indeed that this is Christ?



7:27
But this man we know whence he is. But when Christ cometh, no man knoweth whence he is.


7:28
Jesus therefore cried in the temple teaching and saying: Both me you do know, and whence I am you know. And of myself I am not come, but he is true that sent me, whom you know not.





7:29
I know him, because I am of him, and he sent me.


7:30
They sought therefore to apprehend him: and no man laid hands upon him, because his hour was not yet come.


7:31
But of the multitude many believed in him, and said: Christ, when he cometh shall he do more signs than these which this man doeth?



7:32
The Pharisees heard the multitude murmuring these things touching him: and the Princes and Pharisees sent Ministers to apprehend him.



7:33
Jesus therefore said to them: Yet a little time I am with you: and I go to him that sent me.



7:34
You seek me, and shall not find: and where I am, you cannot come.



7:35
The Jews therefore said among themselves, whither will this man go, that we shall not find him? will he go into the dispersion of the Gentiles, and teach the Gentiles?



7:36
What is this saying that he hath said: You shall seek me, and shall not find; and where I am, you cannot come.




7:37
And in the last, the great day of the festivity Jesus stood and cried, saying: If any man thirst, let him come to me, and drink.




7:38
He that believeth in me, as the scripture saith, Out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water.



7:39
(And this he said of the Spirit that they should receive which believed in him. For as yet the Spirit was not given: because Jesus was not yet glorified.)


7:40
Of that multitude therefore, when they had heard these words of his, some said: This is the Prophet indeed.


7:41
Others said: This is Christ. But certain said: Why, doth Christ come from Galilee?




7:42
Doth not the scripture say: That of the seed of David, and from Bethlehem the town where David was, Christ doth come?


7:43
Therefore there arose dissension in the multitude for him.

7:44
And certain of them would have apprehended him: but no man laid hands upon him.


7:45
The ministers therefore came to the chief Priests and the Pharisees. And they said to them: Why have you not brought him?



7:46
The Ministers answered: Never did there man so speak, as this man.


7:47
The Pharisees therefore answered them: Why, are you also seduced?


7:48
Hath any of the Princes believed in him, or of the Pharisees?

7:49
but this multitude that knoweth not the law, are accursed.

7:50
Nicodemus said to them, he that came to him by night, who was one of them:

7:51
Doth our law judge a man, unless it first hear him, and know what he doeth?



7:52
They answered & said to him: Why, art thou also a Galilæan? Search, & see that from Galilee a Prophet riseth not.





7:53
And every man returned to his house.

