4:1
When Jesus therefore understood that the Pharisees heard that Jesus maketh more Disciples, and baptizeth, than John,




4:4
And he had of necessity to pass through Samaria.

4:5
He cometh therefore into a city of Samaria which is called Sichar; beside the manor that Jacob gave to Joseph his son.

4:6
And there was there the fountain of Jacob. Jesus therefore wearied of his journey, sat so upon the fountain. It was about the sixth hour.



4:7
There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said to her: Give me to drink.



4:8
For his Disciples were gone into the city, to buy meats.


4:9
Therefore that Samaritane woman saith to him: How doest thou being a Jew, ask of me to drink, which am a Samaritane woman? For the Jews do not communicate with the Samaritans.



4:10
Jesus answered, and said to her: If thou didst know the gift of God, and who he is that saith unto thee, Give me to drink; thou perhaps wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water.






4:11
The woman saith to him: Sir, neither hast thou wherein to draw, and the well is deep; whence hast thou the living water?




4:12
art thou greater than our Father Jacob, who gave us the well, & himself drank of it, and his children, and his cattle?


4:13
Jesus answered, and said to her: Every one that drinketh of this water, shall thirst again; but he that shall drink of the water that I will give him, shall not thirst for ever,




4:14
but the water that I will give him, shall become in him a fountain of water springing up unto life everlasting.

4:15
The woman saith to him: Lord give me this water, that I may not thirst, nor come hither to draw.




4:16
Jesus saith to her: Go, call thy husband, and come hither.




4:17
The woman answered and said: I have no husband. Jesus said to her: Thou hast said well, that I have no husband.






4:18
For thou hast had five husbands; and he whom thou now hast, is not thy husband. This thou hast said truly.



4:19
The woman saith to him: Lord, I perceive that thou art a Prophet.


4:20
Our Fathers adored in this mountain, and you say, that at Jerusalem is the place where men must adore.


4:21
Jesus saith to her: Woman believe me, that the hour shall come, when you shall neither in this mountain, nor in Jerusalem adore the Father.


4:22
You adore that you know not: we adore that we know; for salvation is of the Jews.


4:23
But the hour cometh, and now it is, when the true adorers shall adore the Father in spirit and verity. For the Father also seeketh such to adore him.




4:24
God is a Spirit, and they that adore him, must adore in spirit and verity.


4:25
The woman saith to him: I know that Messias cometh, (which is called Christ) therefore when he cometh, he will shew us all things.



4:26
Jesus saith to her: I am he, that speak with thee.


4:27
And incontinent his Disciples came: and they marveled that he talked with a woman. No man for all that said: What seekest thou, or why talkest thou with her?





4:28
The woman therefore left her water-pot: and she went into the city, and saith to those men:



4:29
Come, and see a man that hath told me all things whatsoever I have done. Is not he Christ?



4:30
They went forth therefore out of the city, and came to him.


4:31
In the mean time the Disciples desired him, saying: Rabbi eat.


4:32
But he said to them: I have meat to eat which you know not.


4:33
The Disciples therefore said one to another: Hath any man brought him for to eat?


4:34
Jesus saith to them: My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, to perfit his work.



4:35
Do not you say that yet there are four months, and harvest cometh? Behold I say to you, lift up your eyes, and see the Countries, that they are white already to harvest.





4:36
And he that reapeth, receiveth hire, and gathereth fruit unto life everlasting: that both he that soweth, and he that reapeth, may rejoice together.




4:37
For in this is the saying true: that it is one man that soweth, and it is another that reapeth.


4:38
I have sent you to reap that which you laboured not: others have laboured, & you have entered into their labours.



4:39
And of that city many believed in him of the Samaritans, for the word of the woman giving testimony, that he told me all things whatsoever I have done.


4:40
Therefore when the Samaritans were come to him, they desired him that he would tarry there. And he tarried there two days.


4:41
And many more believed for his own word.

4:42
And they said to the woman, That now not for thy saying do we believe; for ourselves have heard, and do know that this is the Saviour of the world indeed.




4:43
And after two days he departed thence; and went into Galilee.


4:44
For Jesus himself gave testimony that a Prophet hath not honour in his own country:

4:45
Therefore when he was come into Galilee, the Galilæans received him, whereas they had seen all things that he had done at Jerusalem in the festival day: for themselves also came to the festival day.



4:46
He came again therefore into Cana of Galilee, where he made water wine. And there was a certain lord whose son was sick at Capharnaum.


4:47
He having heard that Jesus came from Jewry into Galilee, went to him, and desired him that he would come down and heal his son, For he began to die.



4:48
Jesus therefore said to him: Unless you see signs and wonders, you believe not.


4:49
The lord saith to him: Lord, come down before that my son die.



4:50
Jesus saith to him: Go, thy son liveth. The man believed the word that Jesus said to him, and went.





4:51
And as he was now going down, his servants met him: and they brought word, saying, That his son lived.


4:52
He asked therefore of them the hour, wherein he was amended. And they said to him, That yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.


4:53
The father therefore knew that it was in the same hour wherein Jesus said to him: Thy son liveth, and himself believed and his whole house.



4:54
This again the second sign did Jesus, when he was come from Jewry into Galilee.


