18:1
When Jesus had said these things, he went forth with his Disciples beyond the Torrent-Cedron, where was a garden, into the which he entered and his Disciples.

18:2
And Judas also, that betrayed him, knew the place: because Jesus had often resorted thither together with his Disciples.


18:3
Judas therefore having received the band of men, and of the chief Priests and Pharisees, ministers, cometh thither with lanterns and torches and weapons.

18:4
Jesus therefore knowing all things that should come upon him, went forth, and said to them: Whom seek ye?



18:5
They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus saith to them: I am he. And Judas also that betrayed him, stood with them.





18:6
As soon therefore as he said to them, I am he; they went backward, and fell to the ground.




18:7
Again therefore he asked them: Whom seek ye? And they said: Jesus of Nazareth.




18:8
Jesus answered, I have told you, that I am he. If therefore you seek me, let these go their ways.



18:9
That the word might be fulfilled which he said, That of them whom thou hast given me, I have not lost any.


18:10
Simon Peter therefore having a sword, drew it out; and smote the servant of the high Priest, & cut off his right ear. And the name of the servant was Malchus.




18:11
Jesus therefore said to Peter: Put up thy sword into the scabbard. The chalice which my Father hath given me, shall not I drink it?



18:12
The band therefore and the Tribune & the ministers of the Jews apprehended Jesus, and bound him:


18:13
and they brought him to Annas first, for he was father in law to Caiphas, who was the high Priest of that year.


18:14
And Caiphas was he that had given the counsel to the Jews, That it is expedient that one man die for the people.

18:15
And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and another Disciple. And that Disciple was known to the high Priest, and went in with Jesus into the court of the high Priest.



18:16
But Peter stood at the door without. The other Disciple therefore that was known to the high Priest, went forth, and spake to the portress, and brought in Peter.




18:17
The wench therefore that was portress, saith to Peter: Art not thou also of this man's Disciples? He saith to her, I am not.




18:18
And the servants & ministers stood at a fire of coals, because it was cold, and warmed themselves. And with them was Peter also standing, and warming himself.


18:19
The high Priest therefore asked Jesus of his Disciples, and of his doctrine.

18:20
Jesus answered him: I have openly spoken to the world: I have always taught in the Synagogue, and in the temple whither all the Jews resort together: and in secret I have spoken nothing.




18:21
Why askest thou me? ask them that have heard what I have spoken unto them: behold they know what things I have said.



18:22
When he had said these things, one of the ministers standing by, gave Jesus a blow, saying: Answerest thou the high Priest so?


18:23
Jesus answered him: If I have spoken ill, give testimony of evil: but if well, why strikest thou me?



18:24
And Annas sent him bound to Caiphas the high priest.

18:25
And Simon Peter was standing, and warming himself. They said therefore to him: Art not thou also of his Disciples: He denied and said: I am not.






18:26
One of the servants of the high Priest saith to him, his cousin whose ear Peter did cut off: Did not I see thee in the garden with him?


18:27
Again therefore Peter denied: and forthwith the cock crew.


18:28
They therefore bring Jesus from Caiphas into the Palace. And it was morning: and they went not in into the Palace, that they might not be contaminated, but that they might eat the Pasch.





18:29
Pilate therefore went forth to them without, and said: What accusation bring you against this man?



18:30
They answered and said to him: If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up to thee.



18:31
Pilate therefore said to them: Take him you, and according to your law judge him. The Jews therefore said to him: It is not lawful for us to kill any man.





18:32
That the word of Jesus might be fulfilled which he said, signifying what death he should die.

18:33
Pilate therefore went into the Palace again, and called Jesus, and said to him: Art thou the King of the Jews?




18:34
Jesus answered: Sayest thou this of thyself, or have others told it thee of me?



18:35
Pilate answered: Why, am I a Jew? Thy Nation, and the chief Priests have delivered thee up to me: what hast thou done?




18:36
Jesus answered: My Kingdom is not of this world. If my Kingdom were of this world, my ministers verily would strive that I should not be delivered to the Jews. But now my Kingdom is not from hence.




18:37
Pilate therefore said to him: Art thou a King then? Jesus answered: Thou sayest, that I am a King. For this was I born, and for this came I into the world: that I should give testimony to the truth. Every one that is of the truth, heareth my voice.







18:38
Pilate saith to him: What is truth? And when he had said this, he went forth again to the Jews, and saith to them: I find no cause in him.





18:39
But you have a custom that I should release one to you in the Pasch: will you therefore that I release unto you the King of the Jews?


18:40
They all therefore cried again, saying: Not him but Barabbas. And Barabbas was a thief.



