15:1
I AM the true vine; and my Father is the husband-man.


15:2
Every branch in me, not bearing fruit, he will take it away: & every one that beareth fruit, he will purge it, that it may bring more fruit.



15:3
Now you are clean for the word which I have spoken to you.

15:4
Abide in me: and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, unless it abide in the vine, so you neither unless you abide in me.




15:5
I am the vine: you the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same beareth much fruit: for without me you can do nothing.


15:6
If any abide not in me: he shall be cast forth as the branch, and shall wither, and they shall gather him up, and cast him into the fire, and he burneth.





15:7
If you abide in me, & my words abide in you: you shall ask what thing soever you will, and it shall be done to you.




15:8
In this my Father is glorified; that you bring very much fruit, and become my Disciples.

15:9
As my Father hath loved me, I also have loved you. Abide in my love.


15:10
If you keep my precepts, you shall abide in my love: as I also have kept my Father's precepts, and do abide in his love.



15:11
These things I have spoken to you, that my joy may be in you, and your joy may be filled.


15:12
This is my precept, that you love one another, as I have loved you.


15:13
Greater love than this no man hath, that a man yield his life for his friends.

15:14
You are my friends, if you do the things that I command you.


15:15
Now I call you not servants: for the servant knoweth not what his Lord doeth. But you I have called friends; because all things whatsoever I heard of my Father, I have notified unto you.




15:16
You chose not me, but I chose you; and have appointed you: that you go, & bring fruit; and your fruit abide: that whatsoever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it you.







15:17
These things I command you, that you love one another.


15:18
If the world hate you, know ye that it hath hated me before you.

15:19
If you had been of the world, the world would love his own. But because you are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you.




15:20
Remember my word that I said to you: The servant is not greater than his Master. If they have persecuted me, you also will they persecute. If they have kept my word, yours also will they keep.




15:21
But all these things they will do to you for my name sake; because they know not him that sent me.


15:22
If I had not come, and spoken to them, they should not have sin: but now they have no excuse of their sin.


15:23
He that hateth me, hateth my Father also.

15:24
If I had not done among them works that no other man hath done, they should not have sin: but now both they have seen, and they do hate both me and my Father.



15:25
But that the word may be fulfilled, which is written in their law: That they hated me gratis.


15:26
But when the Paraclete cometh whom I will send you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall give testimony of me:


