8:1
And Jesus went into the Mount-olivet:

8:2
and early in the morning again he came into the temple, and the people came to him, and sitting he taught them.



8:3
And the Scribes and Pharisees bring a woman taken in adultery; and they did set her in the midst,



8:4
And said to him: Master, this woman was even now taken in adultery.

8:5
And in the law Moyses commanded us to stone such. What sayest thou therefore?


8:6
And this they said tempting him, that they might accuse him. But Jesus bowing himself down, with his finger wrote in the earth.



8:7
When they therefore continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said to them: He that is without sin of you, let him first throw the stone at her.



8:8
And again bowing himself, he wrote in the earth.

8:9
And they hearing, went out one by one, beginning at the seniors: and Jesus alone remained, and the woman standing in the midst.


8:10
And Jesus lifting up himself, said to her: Woman, where are they that accused thee? Hath no man condemned thee?



8:11
Who said: No man, Lord. And Jesus said: Neither will I condemn thee. Go, and now sin no more.






8:12
Again therefore Jesus spake to them, saying: I am the light of the world: he that followeth me, walketh not in darkness, but shall have the light of life.




8:13
The Pharisees therefore said to him: Thou givest testimony of thyself; thy testimony is not true.



8:14
Jesus answered, and said to them: Although I do give testimony of myself, my testimony is true: because I know whence I came, & whither I go: but you know not whence I come, or whither I go.







8:15
You judge according to the flesh: I do not judge any man.


8:16
And if I do judge, my judgement is true: because I am not alone, but I and he that sent me, the Father.



8:17
And in your law it is written, that the testimony of two men is true.

8:18
I am he that give testimony of myself: and he that sent me, the Father, giveth testimony of me.


8:19
They said therefore to him: Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Neither me do you know, nor my Father. If you did know me, perhaps you might know my Father also.





8:20
These words Jesus spake in the Treasury, teaching in the temple, and no man apprehended him, because his hour was not yet come.



8:21
Again therefore Jesus said to them: I go, and you shall seek me, and shall die in your sin. Whither I go, you cannot come.





8:22
The Jews therefore said: Why, will he kill himself, because he saith: Whither I go, you cannot come?




8:23
And he said to them: You are from beneath, I am from above. You are of this world, I am not of this world.





8:24
Therefore I said to you that you shall die in your sins. For if you believe not that I am he, you shall die in your sin.


8:25
They said therefore to him: Who art thou? Jesus said to them: The Beginning who also speak to you.




8:26
Many things I have to speak and judge of you. But he that sent me, is true: and what I have heard of him, these things I speak in the world.



8:27
And they knew not that he said to them that his Father was God.

8:28
Jesus therefore said to them: When you shall have exalted the Son of man, then you shall know that I am he, and of myself I do nothing, but as the Father hath taught me, these things I speak:




8:29
and he that sent me, is with me: and he hath not left me alone, because the things that please him I do always.



8:30
When he spake these things, many believed in him.

8:31
Jesus therefore said to them that believed him, the Jews: If you abide in my word, you shall be my Disciples indeed.




8:33
They answered him: We are the seed of Abraham, and we never served any man: how sayest thou, You shall be free?





8:34
Jesus answered them: Amen, amen I say to you, that every one which committeth sin, is the servant of sin.



8:35
And the servant abideth not in the house for ever: the son abideth for ever.


8:36
If therefore the Son make you free, you shall be free indeed.

8:37
I know that you are the children of Abraham: but you seek to kill me, because my word taketh not in you.



8:38
Ispeak that which I have seen with my Father: and you do the things that you have seen with your father.


8:39
They answered, and said to him: Our father is Abraham. Jesus saith to them: If you be the children of Abraham, do the works of Abraham.





8:40
But now, you seek to kill me, a man that have spoken the truth to you, which I have heard of God. This did not Abraham.


8:41
You do the works of your father. They said therefore to him: We were not born of fornication. We have one Father, God.




8:42
Jesus therefore said to them: If God were your Father, verily you would love me. For from God I proceeded, and came: for I came not of myself, but he sent me:






8:43
Why do you not know my speech? Because you cannot hear my word.


8:44
You are of your father the devil, & the desires of your father you will do. He was a man-killer from the beginning, & he stood not in the verity; because verity is not in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own, because he is a liar, & the father thereof.






8:45
But because I say the verity, you believe me not.

8:46
Which of you shall argue me of sin? If I say the verity, why do you not believe me?


8:47
He that is of God, heareth the words of God. Therefore you hear not, because you are not of God.


8:48
The Jews therefore answered, and said to him: Do not we say well that thou art a Samaritane, and hast a devil?




8:49
Jesus answered: I have no devil: but I do honour my Father, and you have dishonoured me.




8:50
but I seek not mine own glory. There is that seeketh and judgeth.



8:51
Amen, amen I say to you: If any man keep my word, he shall not see death for ever.


8:52
The Jews therefore said: Now we have known that thou hast a devil. Abraham is dead, and the Prophets; and thou sayest: If any man keep my word, he shall not taste death for ever.





8:53
Why, art thou greater than our father Abraham, who is dead? and the Prophets are dead. Whom doest thou make thyself?



8:54
Jesus answered: If I do glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father that glorifieth me, whom you say that he is your God.



8:55
And you have not known him, but I know him. And if I shall say that I know him not, I shall be like to you, a liar. But I do know him, and do keep his word.





8:56
Abraham your father rejoiced that he might see my day: and he saw, and was glad.




8:57
The Jews therefore said to him: Thou hast not yet fifty years and hast thou seen Abraham?



8:58
Jesus said to them: Amen, amen I say to you, before that Abraham was made, I am.



8:59
They took stones therefore to cast at him. But Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple.




