16:1
These things have I spoken to you, that you be not scandalized.


16:2
Out of the Synagogues they will cast you: but the hour cometh, that every one which killeth you, shall think that he doeth service to God.



16:3
And these things they will do to you, because they have not known the Father, nor me.

16:4
But these things I have spoken to you: that when the hour shall come, you may remember them, that I told you.


16:5
But I told you not these things from the beginning, because I was with you. And now I go to him that sent me, and none of you asketh me: Whither goest thou?




16:6
But because I have spoken these things to you, sorrow hath filled your heart.

16:7
But I tell you the truth, it is expedient for you that I go. For if I go not, the Paraclete shall not come to you: but if I go, I will send him to you.




16:8
And when he is come, he shall argue the world of sin, and of justice, and of judgement.

16:9
Of sin: because they believed not in me.

16:10
But of justice: because I go to the Father; and now you shall not see me.

16:11
And of judgement: because the Prince of this world is now judged.

16:12
Yet many things I have to say to you: but you cannot bear them now.


16:13
But when he, the Spirit of truth, cometh, he shall teach you all truth. For he shall not speak of himself; but what things soever he shall hear, he shall speak: and the things that are to come he shall shew you.




16:14
He shall glorify me; because he shall receive of mine, and shall shew to you.



16:15
All things whatsoever the Father hath, be mine. Therefore I said, that he shall receive of mine, and shall shew to you.




16:16
A little while, and now you shall not see me; & again a little while, & you shall see me: because I go to the Father.





16:17
Some therefore of his Disciples said one to another: What is this that he saith to us: A little while, and you shall not see me; and again a little while and you shall see me, and, because I go to the Father?







16:18
They said therefore: What is this that he saith, A little while? we know not what he speaketh.




16:19
And Jesus knew, that they would ask him; & he said to them: Of this you do question among yourselves, because I said to you: A little while, and you shall not see me; and again a little while, and you shall see me.







16:20
Amen, amen I say to you, that you shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice: and you shall be made sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy.





16:21
Awoman when she travaileth, hath sorrow, because her hour is come: but when she hath brought forth the child, now she remembereth not the anguish for joy, that a man is born into the world.


16:22
And you therefore, now indeed you have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice; and your joy no man shall take from you.




16:23
And in that day me you shall not ask any thing. Amen, amen I say to you, if you ask the Father any thing in my name, he will give it you.



16:24
Until now you have not asked any thing in my name. Ask and you shall receive; that your joy may be full.



16:25
These things in proverbs I have spoken to you. The hour cometh when in proverbs I will no more speak to you, but plainly of the Father I will shew you.


16:26
In that day you shall ask in my name: and I say not to you, that I will ask the Father for you.


16:27
For the Father himself loveth you, because you have loved me, and have believed that I came forth from God.



16:28
I came forth from the Father, and came into the world: again I leave the world, and I go to the Father.




16:29
His Disciples say to him: Behold now thou speakest plainly, and sayest no proverb.



16:30
Now we know that thou knowest all things, and thou needest not that any man ask thee. In this we believe that thou camest forth from God.



16:31
Jesus answered them: Now do you believe?


16:32
Behold the hour cometh, and it is now come, that you shall be scattered every man into his own, and me you shall leave alone: and I am not alone because the Father is with me.





16:33
These things I have spoken to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you shall have distress, but have confidence, I have overcome the world.





