19:1
Then therefore Pilate took Jesus, and scourged him.


19:2
And the soldiers platting a crown of thorns, put it upon his head: and they put about him a purple garment.


19:3
And they came to him, and said: Hail King of the Jews; and they gave him blows.




19:4
Pilate went forth again, and saith to them: Behold I bring him forth unto you, that you may know that I find no cause in him.




19:5
Jesus therefore went forth carrying the crown of thorns, and the purple vestiment. And he saith to them: Lo the man.



19:6
When the chief Priests therefore and the ministers had seen him, they cried, saying: Crucify, crucify him. Pilate saith to them: Take him you, and crucify him. For I find no cause in him.







19:7
The Jews answered him: We have a Law; and according to the Law he ought to die; because he hath made himself the Son of God.




19:8
When Pilate therefore had heard this saying, he feared more.

19:9
And he entered into the Palace again; and he saith to Jesus: Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer.




19:10
Pilate therefore saith to him: Speakest thou not to me? knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee, and I have power to release thee?




19:11
Jesus answered: Thou shouldest not have any power against me, unless it were given thee from above. Therefore he that hath betrayed me to thee, hath the greater sin.



19:12
From thence forth Pilate sought to release him. But the Jews cried, saying: If thou release this man, thou art not Cæsar's friend. Every one that maketh himself a king, speaketh against Cæsar.




19:13
But Pilate when he had heard these words, brought forth Jesus: and he sat in the judgement seat, in the place that is called Lithostrotos, and in Hebrew Gabbatha.


19:14
And it was the Parasceve of Pasch, about the sixth hour, and he saith to the Jews: Lo your King.




19:15
But they cried: Away, away with him, crucify him. Pilate saith to them: Shall I crucify your King? The chief Priests answered: We have no King, but Cæsar.








19:16
Then therefore he delivered him unto them for to be crucified. And they took Jesus, and led him forth.




19:17
And bearing his own cross he went forth into that which is called the place of Calvary, in Hebrew Golgotha.

19:19
And Pilate wrote a title also: and he put it upon the cross. And it was written, Jesus of Nazareth The King of The Jews.





19:20
This title therefore many of the Jews did read: because the place where Jesus was crucified, was nigh to the city: and it was written in Hebrew, in Greek, and in Latin.


19:21
The chief Priests therefore of the Jews said to Pilate: Write not, The King of the Jews; but that he said, I am King of the Jews.



19:22
Pilate answered: That which I have written, I have written.


19:23
The soldiers therefore when they had crucified him, took his garments (and they made four parts, to every soldier a part) & his coat. And his coat was without seam, wrought from the top throughout.





19:24
They said therefore one to another: Let us not cut it, but let us cast lots for it whose it shall be. That the scripture might be fulfilled saying: They have parted my garments among them: and upon my vesture they have cast lots. And the soldiers did these things.







19:25
And there stood beside the cross of Jesus, his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene.

19:26
When Jesus therefore had seen his mother and the Disciple standing whom he loved, he saith to his mother: Woman, behold thy son.






19:27
After that, he saith to the Disciple: Behold thy mother. And from that hour the Disciple took her to his own.



19:28
Afterward Jesus knowing that all things were now consummate, that the scripture might be fulfilled, he saith, I thirst.


19:29
Avessel therefore stood there full of vinegar. And they putting a sponge full of vinegar about hyssop, offered it to his mouth.


19:30
Jesus therefore when he had taken the vinegar, said: It is consummate. And bowing his head, he gave up the ghost.



19:31
The Jews therefore (because it was the Parasceve) that the bodies might not remain upon the cross on the Sabboth (for that was a great Sabboth day) they desired Pilate that their legs might be broken, and they might be taken away.




19:32
The soldiers therefore came: and of the first indeed they brake the legs, and of the other that was crucified with him.



19:33
But after they were come to Jesus, when they saw that he was dead, they did not break his legs,



19:35
And he that saw it, hath given testimony: and his testimony is true. And he knoweth that he saith true, that you also may believe.




19:36
For these things were done that the scripture might be fulfilled: You shall not break a bone of him.



19:37
And again another scripture saith: They shall look on him whom they pierced.


19:38
And after these things Joseph of Arimathæa (because he was a Disciple of Jesus, but secret for fear of the Jews) desired Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus. And Pilate permitted. He came therefore, & took away the body of Jesus.




19:39
Nicodemus also came, he that at the first came to Jesus by night, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about an hundred pounds.

19:40
They took therefore the body of Jesus, and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as the manner is with the Jews to bury.


19:41
And there was in the place where he was crucified, a garden: and in the garden a new monument, wherein no man yet had been laid.


19:42
There therefore because of the Parasceve of the Jews, they laid Jesus, because the monument was hard by.

