14:1
Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe in me also.



14:2
In my Father's house there be many mansions. If not, I would have told you, Because I go to prepare you a place.


14:3
And if I go, and prepare you a place: I come again and will take you to myself, that where I am, you also may be.




14:4
And whither I go you know, and the way you know.


14:5
Thomas saith to him: Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the way?



14:6
Jesus saith to him: I am the way, and the verity, and the life. No man cometh to the Father; but by me.



14:7
If you had known me, my Father also certes you had known: and from hence forth you shall know him, and you have seen him.



14:8
Philippe saith to him: Lord shew us the Father, and it sufficeth us.



14:9
Jesus saith to him: So long time I am with you; & have you not known me? Philippe, he that seeth me, seeth the Father also. How sayest thou, Shew us the Father?







14:10
Doest thou not believe that I am in the Father, & the Father in me? The words that I speak to you, of myself I speak not. But my Father that abideth in me, he doeth the works.




14:11
Believe you not, that I am in the Father and the Father in me? Otherwise for the works themselves believe.


14:12
Amen, amen I say to you, he that believeth in me, the works that I do, he also shall do, and greater than these shall he do,





14:13
because I go to the Father, & whatsoever you shall ask in my name, that will I do: that the Father may be glorified in the Son.


14:14
If you ask me any thing in my name, that will I do.

14:15
If you love me, keep my commandments.

14:16
And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another Paraclete, that he may abide with you for ever,






14:17
the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him, but you know him: because he shall abide with you, and shall be in you.



14:18
I will not leave you orphans: I will come to you.


14:19
Yet a little while: and the world seeth me no more. But you see me: because I live, and you shall live.




14:20
In that day you shall know that I am in my Father, and you in me; and I in you.

14:21
He that hath my commandments, & keepeth them: he it is that loveth me. And he that loveth me, shall be loved of my Father: and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.






14:22
Judas saith to him, not that Iscariote: Lord, what is done, that thou wilt manifest thyself to us, and not to the world?


14:23
Jesus answered, and said to him: If any love me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him, and will make abode with him.






14:24
He that loveth me not, keepeth not my words. And the word which you have heard, is not mine; but his that sent me, the Father's.



14:25
These things have I spoken to you abiding with you.

14:26
But the Paraclete the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, & suggest unto you all things whatsoever I shall say to you.


14:27
Peace I leave to you, my peace I give to you; not as the world giveth, do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, nor fear.





14:28
You have heard that I said to you, I go, and I come to you. If you loved me, you would be glad verily, that I go to the Father: because the Father is greater than I.




14:29
And now I have told you before it come to pass: that when it shall come to pass, you may believe.



14:30
Now I will not speak many things with you. For the Prince of this world cometh, and in me he hath not any thing.



14:31
But that the world may know that I love the Father: and as the Father hath given me commandment, so do I: Arise, let us go hence.




