1:1
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and God was the Word.



1:2
This was in the beginning with God.

1:3
All things were made by him: and without him was made nothing. That which was made,


1:4
in him was life, and the life was the light of men:


1:5
and the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness did not comprehend it.


1:6
There was a man sent from God, whose name was John.

1:7
This man came for testimony; to give testimony of the light, that all might believe through him.



1:8
He was not the light, but to give testimony of the light.


1:9
It was the true light, which lighteneth every man that cometh into this world.

1:10
He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not.



1:11
He came into his own, and his own received him not.


1:12
But as many as received him, he gave them power to be made the sons of God, to those that believe in his name.

1:13
Who, not of blood, nor of the will of flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God are born.

1:14
And The Word Was Made Flesh, and dwelt in us (and we saw the glory of him, glory as it were of the Only-begotten of the Father) full of grace and verity.



1:15
John giveth testimony of him, and cryeth saying: This was he of whom I spake, He that shall come after me, is made before me: because he was before me.




1:16
And of his fullness we all have received, and grace for grace.

1:17
For the law was given by Moyses, grace and verity was made by Jesus Christ.


1:18
God no man hath seen at any time: the only-begotten Son which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared.


1:19
And this is John's testimony, when the Jews sent from Jerusalem Priests and Levites to him, that they should ask him, who art thou?




1:20
And he confessed, and did not deny: and he confessed, That I am not Christ.




1:21
And they asked him: What then? Art thou Elias? And he said: I am not. Art thou the Prophet? And he answered: No.








1:22
They said therefore unto him: Who art thou, that we may give an answer to them that sent us? what sayest thou of thyself?




1:23
He said: I am the voice of one crying in the desert, make straight the way of our Lord, as Esaie the Prophet said.




1:24
And they that were sent were of the Pharisees.

1:25
And they asked him, and said to him: Why then doest thou baptize, if thou be not Christ, nor Elias, nor the Prophet?



1:26
John answered them, saying: I baptize in water; but there hath stood in the midst of you whom you know not.



1:27
The same is he that shall come after me, that is made before me; whose latchet of his shoe I am not worthy to loose.



1:28
These things were done in Bethania beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing.

1:29
The next day John saw Jesus coming to him, and he saith: Behold the lamb of God, behold him that taketh away the sin of the world.



1:30
This is he of whom I said: After me there cometh a man, which is made before me: because he was before me.


1:31
And I knew him not, but that he may be manifested in Israel, therefore came I baptizing in water.


1:32
And John gave testimony, saying: That I saw the Spirit descending as a dove from Heaven, and he remained upon him.



1:33
And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize in water, he said to me: He upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending and remaining upon him, he it is that baptizeth in the Holy Ghost.



1:34
And I saw; and I gave testimony that this is the Son of God.


1:35
The next day again John stood, and two of his Disciples.

1:36
And beholding Jesus walking, he saith: Behold the Lamb of God.


1:37
And the two Disciples heard him speaking, and they followed Jesus.


1:38
And Jesus turning, and seeing them following him, saith to them, What seek you? Who said to him: Rabbi (which is called by interpretation, Master) where dwellest thou?




1:39
He saith to them: Come and see. They came, and saw where he abode, and they tarried with him that day: and it was about the tenth hour.







1:40
And Andrew the brother of Simon Peter was one of the two that had heard of John, and followed him.


1:41
He findeth first his brother Simon, and saith to him: We have found Messias, which is being interpreted, Christ.



1:42
And he brought him to Jesus. And Jesus looking upon him, said: Thou art Simon the son of Jona: thou shalt be called Cephas, which is interpreted, Peter.




1:43
On the morrow he would go forth into Galilee, and he findeth Philippe. And Jesus saith to him: Follow me.




1:44
And Philippe was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.

1:45
Philippe findeth Nathanael, and saith to him: Him whom Moyses in the law, and the Prophets wrote of, we have found, Jesus the son of Joseph, of Nazareth.



1:46
And Nathanael said to him: From Nazareth can there be any good? Philippe saith to him: Come and see.





1:47
Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and he saith of him: Behold an Israelite in very deed, in whom there is no guile.



1:48
Nathanael saith to him: How knowest thou me? Jesus answered and said to him: Before that Philippe did call thee, when thou wast under the figtree, I saw thee.





1:49
Nathanael answered him and saith: Rabbi, thou art the Son of God, thou art the King of Israel.




1:50
Jesus answered, and said to him: Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under the figtree, thou believest; greater than these things shalt thou see.






1:51
And he saith to him: Amen Amen I say to you, You shall see the Heaven opened, and the Angels of God ascending and descending, upon the Son of man.



