4:1
I Testify before God and Jesus Christ who shall judge the living and the dead, and by his advent, and his Kingdom:



4:2
Preach the word. Urge in season, out of season, reprove, beseech, rebuke, in all patience and doctrine.





4:3
For there shall be a time when they will not bear sound doctrine: but according to their own desires they will heap to themselves masters, having itching ears,




4:5
But be thou vigilant, labour in all things, do the work of an Evangelist, fulfill thy ministry. Be sober.




4:6
For I am even now to be sacrificed: and the time of my resolution is at hand.


4:7
I have fought a good fight, I have consummate my course, I have kept the faith.



4:9
Make haste to come to me quickly.

4:10
For Demas hath left me, loving this world, and is gone to Thessalonica: Crescens into Galatia, Titus into Dalmatia.




4:11
Luke only is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with thee: for he is profitable to me for the ministry.




4:12
But Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus.

4:13
The cloak that I left at Troas with Carpus, coming bring with thee, and the books, especially the parchment.

4:14
Alexander the Coppersmith hath shewed me much evil: our Lord will reward him according to his works:


4:15
whom do thou also avoid, for he hath greatly resisted our words.


4:16
In my first answer no man was with me, but all did forsake me: be it not imputed to them.



4:17
But our Lord stood to me, and strengthened me, that by me the preaching may be accomplished, and all Gentiles may hear: and I was delivered from the mouth of the lion.





4:18
Our Lord hath delivered me from all evil work: and will save me unto his heavenly Kingdom. To whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.




4:19
Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the house of Onesiphorus.

4:20
Erastus remained at Corinth. And Trophimus I left sick at Miletum.


4:21
Make haste to come before winter. Eubulus and Pudens and Linus and Claudia, and all the brethren, salute thee.


4:22
Our Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit. Grace be with you. Amen.



