10:1
And having called his twelve disciples together, he gave them power over unclean spirits,
that they should cast them out,
& should cure all manner of disease, & all manner of infirmity.

10:2
And the names of the twelve Apostles be these: The first,
Simon who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, James of Zebedee, and John his brother, Philip and Barthlemew, Thomas and Matthew the publican, and James of Alphæus, and Thaddæus,
Simon Cananæus,
& Judas Iscariote, who also betrayed him.

10:5
These twelve did Jesus send;
commanding them, saying:
Into the way of the Gentiles go ye not, and into the cities of the Samaritans enter ye not:

10:6
but go rather to the sheep that are perished of the house of Israel.

10:7
And going preach, saying:
That the Kingdom of Heaven is at hand.

10:8
Cure the sick,
raise the dead,
cleanse the lepers,
cast out devils:
gratis you have received,
gratis give ye.

10:9
Do not possess gold, nor silver, nor money in your purses:

10:10
not a scrip for the way, neither two coats, neither shoes, neither rod. For the workman is worthy of his meat.

10:11
And into whatsoever city or town you shall enter,
inquire who in it is worthy:
and there tarry till you go forth.

10:12
And when ye enter into the house, salute it, saying: Peace be to this house.

10:13
And if so be that house be worthy, your peace shall come upon it.
But if it be not worthy, your peace shall return to you.

10:14
And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your words; going forth out of the house or the city shake off the dust from your feet.

10:15
Amen I say to you,
it shall be more tolerable for the land of the Sodomites and Gomorrheans in the day of judgement, than for that city.

10:16
Behold I send you as sheep in the midst of wolves.
Be ye therefore wise as serpents, and simple as doves.

10:17
And take heed of men.
For they will deliver you up in Councils,
and in their Synagogues they will scourge you.

10:18
And to presidents and to kings shall you be led for my sake, in testimony to them and the Gentiles.

10:19
But when they shall deliver you up,
take no thought how or what to speak:
for it shall be given you in that hour what to speak.

10:20
For it is not you that speak,
but the Spirit of your Father that speaketh in you.

10:21
The brother also shall deliver up the brother to death, and the father the Son:
and the children shall rise up against the parents,
and shall work their death,

10:22
and you shall be odious to all men for my name:
but he that shall persevere unto the end, he shall be saved.

10:23
And when they shall persecute you in this city, flee into another.
Amen I say to you,
you shall not finish all the cities of Israel,
till the Son of man come.

10:24
The disciple is not above the master, nor the servant above his lord.

10:25
It sufficeth the disciple that he be as his master, and the servant as his lord.
If they have called the goodman of the house Beelzebub, how much more them of his household?

10:26
Therefore fear ye not them.
For nothing is hid, that shall not be revealed:
and secret, that shall not be known.

10:27
That which I speak to you in the dark, speak ye in the light:
and that which you hear in the ear, preach ye upon the house tops.

10:28
And fear ye not them that kill the body, and are not able to kill the soul:
but rather fear him that can destroy both soul and body into Hell.

10:29
Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing:
and not one of them shall fall upon the ground without your father?

10:30
But your very hairs of the head are all numbered.

10:31
Fear not therefore:
better are you than many sparrows.

10:32
Every one therefore that shall confess me before men, I also will confess him before my Father which is in Heaven.

10:33
But he that shall deny me before men, I also will deny him before my Father which is in Heaven.

10:34
Do not ye think that I came to send peace into the earth:
I came not to send peace, but the sword.

10:35
For I came to separate man against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter in law against her mother in law.

10:36
And a man's enemies, they of his own household.

10:37
He that loveth father or mother more than me, is not worthy of me:
and he that loveth son or daughter above me, is not worthy of me.

10:38
And he that taketh not his cross, and followeth me, is not worthy of me.

10:39
He that hath found his life, shall lose it:
and he that hath lost his life for me, shall find it.

10:40
He that receiveth you, receiveth me:
and he that receiveth me, receiveth him that sent me.

10:41
He that receiveth a Prophet in the name of a Prophet, shall receive the reward of a Prophet,
and he that receiveth a just man in the name of a just man, shall receive the reward of a just man.

10:42
And whosoever shall give drink to one of these little ones a cup of cold water, only in the name of a disciple,
amen I say to you,
he shall not lose his reward.

