4:1
Then Jesus was led of the Spirit into the desert,
to be tempted of the devil.

4:2
And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, afterward he was hungry.

4:3
And the tempter approached and said to him:
If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread.

4:4
Who answered and said:
It is written,
Not in bread alone doth man live, but in every word that proceedeth from the mouth of God.

4:5
Then the devil took him up into the holy city,
and set him upon the pinnacle of the Temple,

4:6
and said to him: If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down, for it is written:
That he will give his Angels charge of thee, & in their hands shall they hold thee up,
lest perhaps thou knock thy foot against a stone.

4:7
Jesus said to him again:
It is written,
Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.

4:8
Again the devil took him up into a very high mountain:
and he shewed him all the kingdoms of the world,
and the glory of them,

4:9
and said to him: All these will I give thee,
if falling down thou wilt adore me.

4:10
Then Jesus saith to him:
Avaunt Satan;
for it is written,
The Lord thy God shalt thou adore,
and him only shalt thou serve.

4:11
Then the devil left him;
and behold Angels came,
and ministered to him.

4:12
And when Jesus had heard that John was delivered up, he retired into Galilee :

4:13
and leaving the city Nazareth,
came and dwelt in Capharnaum a sea town,
in the borders of Zabulon & Nephthali;

4:14
that it might be fulfilled which was said by Esay the Prophet.

4:15
Land of Zabulon & land of Nephthali, the way of the sea beyond Jordan of Galilee, of the Gentiles: the people that sat in darkness, hath seen great light:
& to them that sat in a country of the shadow of death, light is risen to them.

4:17
From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say:
Do penance,
for the Kingdom of Heaven is at hand.

4:18
And Jesus walking by the sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea
(for they were fishers)

4:19
and he saith to them: Come ye after me,
and I will make you to be fishers of men.

4:20
But they incontinent leaving the nets, followed him.

4:21
And going forward from thence, he saw other two brethren, James of Zebedee, and John his brother, in a ship with Zebedee their father, repairing their nets:
and he called them.

4:22
And they forthwith left their nets and father and followed him.

4:23
And Jesus went round about all Galilee, teaching in their Synagogues, & preaching the Gospel of the Kingdom: and healing every malady, and every infirmity, in the people.

4:24
And the bruit of him went into all Syria,
and they presented to him all that were ill at ease, diversely taken with diseases and torments,
and such as were possest,
and lunatics, and sick of the palsy,
and he cured them:

4:25
And much people followed him from Galilee, and Decapolis, and Jerusalem, and from Jury and from beyond Jordan.
