5:1
And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain: and when he was set, his Disciples came unto him,



5:3
Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven.

5:4
Blessed are the meek: for they shall possess the land.

5:5
Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.

5:6
Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after justice: for they shall have their fill.

5:7
Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.

5:8
Blessed are the clean of heart: for they shall see God.

5:9
Blessed are the peace-makers: for they shall be called the children of God.

5:10
Blessed are they that suffer persecution for justice: for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven.

5:11
Blessed are ye when they shall revile you, and persecute you, & speak all that naught is against you, untruly, for my sake:




5:12
be glad & rejoice, for your reward is very great in Heaven. For so they persecuted the Prophets, that were before you.




5:13
You are the salt of the earth.




5:14
But if the salt leese his virtue, wherewith shall it be salted? It is good for nothing any more but to be cast forth, and to be trodden of men.





5:16
Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel, but upon a candlestick, that it may shine to all that are in the house.



5:17
So let your light shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in Heaven.


5:18
Do not think that I am come to break the Law, or the Prophets. I am not come to break, but to fulfill.



5:19
For assuredly I say unto you, till Heaven and earth pass, one jot, or one tittle shall not pass of the Law, till all be fulfilled.


5:20
He therefore that shall break one of these least commandments, and shall so teach men, shall be called the least in the Kingdom of Heaven. But he that shall do and teach, he shall be called great in the Kingdom of Heaven.

5:21
For I tell you, that unless your justice abound more than that of the Scribes and Pharisees, you shall not enter into the Kingdom of Heaven.



5:22
You have heard that it was said to them of old: Thou shalt not kill. And whoso killeth, shall be in danger of judgement.




5:23
But I say to you, that whosoever is angry with his brother, shall be in danger of judgment. And whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of a council. And whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be guilty of the Hell of fire.


5:24
If therefore thou offer thy gift at the Altar, and there thou remember that thy brother hath ought against thee;

5:25
leave there thy offering before the Altar, and go first to be reconciled to thy brother: and then coming thou shalt offer thy gift.




5:26
Be at agreement with thy adversary betimes, whiles thou art in the way with him; lest perhaps the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison.



5:27
Amen I say to thee, thou shalt not go out from thence till thou repay the last farthing.


5:28
You have heard that it was said to them of old: Thou shalt not commit adultery.


5:29
But I say to you, that whosoever shall see a woman to lust after her, hath already committed adultery with her in his heart.



5:30
And if thy right eye scandalize thee, pluck it out, & cast it from thee. For it is expedient for thee that one of thy limbs perish, rather than thy whole body be cast into hell.



5:31
And if thy right hand scandalize thee, cut it off, and cast it from thee: for it is expedient for thee that one of thy limbs perish rather than that thy whole body go into Hell.


5:32
It was said also, whosoever shall dismiss his wife, let him give her a bill of divorcement.



5:33
But I say to you, whosoever shall dismiss his wife, excepting the cause of fornication, maketh her to commit adultery: And he that shall marry her that is dismissed; committeth adultery.



5:34
Again you have heard that it was said to them of old, Thou shalt not commit perjury: but thou shall perform thy oaths to our Lord.






5:37
Let your talk be yea, yea: no, no: and that which is over & above these, is of evil.



5:38
You have heard that it was said, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.


5:39
But I say to you not to resist evil: but if one strike thee on thy right cheek, turn to him also the other:


5:40
and to him that will contend with thee in judgement, and take away thy coat, let go thy cloak also unto him.

5:41
and whosoever will force thee one mile, go with him other twain.

5:42
He that asketh of thee, give to him: and to him that would borrow of thee, turn not away.


5:43
You have heard that it was said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, & hate thine enemy.



5:44
But I say to you, love your enemies, do good to them that hate you: and pray for them that persecute and abuse you:




5:45
that you may be the children of your father which is in heaven, who maketh his sun to rise upon good & bad, and raineth upon just and unjust.


5:46
For if you love them that love you, what reward shall you have? Do not also the Publicans this?


5:47
And if you salute your brethren only, what do you more, do not also the Heathen this?


5:48
Be you perfect therefore, as also your heavenly Father is perfect.

