11:1
And it came to pass:
when Jesus had done commanding his twelve Disciples,
he passed from thence,
to teach & preach in their cities.


11:2
And when John had heard in prison the works of Christ; sending two of his Disciples, he said to him:

11:3
Art thou he that art to come,
or look we for another?

11:4
And Jesus making answer said to them:
Go and report to John what you have heard and seen.

11:5
The blind see,
the lame walk,
the lepers are made clean,
the deaf hear,
the dead rise again,
to the poor the Gospel is preached.

11:6
and blessed is he that shall not be scandalized in me.

11:7
And when they went their way,
Jesus began to say to the multitudes of John:
What went you out into the desert to see? a reed shaken with the wind?

11:8
But what went you out to see? A man clothed in soft garments? Behold they that are clothed in soft garments,
are in kings' houses.


11:9
But what went you out to see? A Prophet? Yea I tell you and more than a Prophet.



11:10
For this is he of whom it is written:
Behold I send mine Angel before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.

11:11
Amen I say to you,
there hath not risen among the born of women a greater than John the Baptist:
yet he that is the lesser in the Kingdom of Heaven, is greater than he.

11:12
And from the days of John the Baptist until now, the Kingdom of Heaven suffereth violence,
and the violent bear it away.

11:13
For all the Prophets and the Law prophesied unto John:

11:14
and if you will receive it,
he is Elias that is for to come.

11:15
He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.

11:16
And whereunto shall I esteem this Generation to be like? It is like to children sitting in the market place,



11:17
which crying to their companions,
say: we have piped to you,
and you have not danced:
we have lamented, and you have not mourned.

11:18
For John came neither eating nor drinking;
and they say:
He hath a devil.

11:19
The Son of man came eating and drinking,
and they say:
Behold a man that is a glutton and a wine-drinker, a friend of Publicans and sinners.
And wisdom is justified of her children.

11:20
Then began he to upbraid the cities, wherein were done the most of his miracles, for that they had not done penance.

11:21
Woe be to thee Corozain, woe be to thee Beth-saida:
for if in Tyre & Sidon had been wrought the miracles that have been wrought in you, they had done penance in hair-cloth & ashes long ago.

11:22
But nevertheless,
I say to you, it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgement, than for you.

11:23
And thou Capharnaum,
shalt thou be exalted up to Heaven? thou shalt come down even unto Hell.
For if in Sodom had been wrought the miracles that have been wrought in thee, perhaps it had remained unto this day.

11:24
But notwithstanding I say to you, that it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgement, than for thee.

11:25
At that time Jesus answered and said:
I confess to thee O Father Lord of Heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them to little ones.

11:26
Yea Father; for so hath it well pleased thee.

11:27
All things are delivered me of my Father. And no man knoweth the Son but the Father:
neither doth any know the Father,
but the Son,
and to whom it shall please the Son to reveal.

11:28
Come ye to me all that labour,
and are burdened,
and I will refresh you.

11:29
Take up my yoke upon you, and learn of me,
because I am meek, and humble of heart:
and you shall find rest to your souls.

11:30
For my yoke is sweet,
and my burden light.

