28:1
And in the evening of the Sabboth which dawneth on the first of the Sabboth, came Mary Magdalene, and the other Mary to see the sepulchre.

28:2
And behold there was made a great earth-quake. For an Angel of our Lord descended from Heaven: and coming, rolled back the stone, and sat upon it:




28:3
and his countenance was as lightning, and his garment as snow.


28:4
And for fear of him, the watchmen were frighted, and became as dead.


28:5
And the Angel answering said to the women: Fear not you. For I know that you seek Jesus that was crucified.



28:6
He is not here, for he is risen, as he said. Come, and see the place where our Lord was laid.





28:7
And going quickly, tell ye his Disciples that he is risen: and behold he goeth before you into Galilee: there you shall see him. Lo I have foretold you.




28:8
And they went forth quickly out of the monument with fear and great joy, running to tell his Disciples.

28:9
And behold Jesus met them, saying: All hail. But they came near and took hold of his feet, and adored him.





28:10
Then Jesus said to them: Fear not. Go, tell my brethren that they go into Galilee, there they shall see me.





28:11
Who when they were departed, behold certain of the watchmen came into the city, and told the chief Priests all things that had been done.


28:12
And being assembled together with the Ancients, taking counsel, they gave a great sum of money to the soldiers,

28:13
saying: Say you, that his Disciples came by night, and stole him away when we were asleep.


28:14
And if the President shall hear of this, we will persuade him, and make you secure.


28:15
But they taking the money, did as they were taught. And this word was bruited abroad among the Jews, even unto this day.


28:16
And the eleven Disciples went into Galilee, unto the mount where Jesus had appointed them.

28:17
And seeing him they adored, but some doubted.


28:18
And Jesus coming near spake unto them, saying: All power is given to me in Heaven and in earth.


28:19
going therefore teach ye all Nations: Baptizing Them in The Name of The Father, And of The Son, And of The Holy Ghost,

28:20
teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and behold I am with you all days, even to the consummation of the world.

