19:1
And it came to pass,
when Jesus had ended these words,
he departed from Galilee, and came into the coasts of Jury beyond Jordan,
and great multitudes followed him;
and he cured them there.

19:3
And there came to him the Pharisees tempting him, and saying: Is it lawful for a man to dismiss his wife for every cause?

19:4
Who answering, said to them:
Have ye not read, that he which did make from the beginning, made them male & female? And he said:

19:5
For this cause,
man shall leave father & mother,
& shall cleave to his wife,
and they two shall be in one flesh.

19:6
Therefore now they are not two, but one flesh.
That therefore which God hath joined together, let not man separate.

19:7
They say to him:
Why then did Moyses command to give a bill of divorce, and to dismiss her?

19:8
He saith to them:
Because Moyses for the hardness of your heart permitted you to dismiss your wives:
but from the beginning it was not so.

19:9
And I say to you, that whosoever shall dismiss his wife, but for fornication, and shall marry another, doth commit adultery:
and he that shall marry her that is dismissed, committeth adultery.

19:10
His Disciples say unto him:
If the case of a man with his wife be so, it is not expedient to marry.

19:11
Who said to them:
Not all take this word,
but they to whom it is given.

19:12
For there are Eunuchs which were born so from their mother's womb:
and there are Eunuchs, which were made by men:
and there are Eunuchs, which have gelded themselves for the Kingdom of Heaven.
He that can take, let him take.

19:13
Then were little children presented to him,
that he should impose hands upon them & pray.
And the Disciples rebuked them.


19:14
But Jesus said to them:
Suffer the little children,
and stay them not from coming unto me:
for the Kingdom of Heaven is for such.

19:15
And when he had imposed hands upon them, he departed from thence.

19:16
And behold one came and said to him:
Good Master,
what good shall I do that I may have life everlasting?

19:17
Who said to him:
What asketh thou me of good? One is good,
God.
But if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments.

19:18
He saith to him,
which? And Jesus said:
Thou shalt not murder,
Thou shalt not commit adultery,
Thou shalt not steal,
Thou shalt not bear false witness.
Honour thy father & thy mother,
Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.


19:20
The young man saith to him:
All these have I kept from my youth;
what is yet wanting unto me?

19:21
Jesus said to him:
If thou wilt be perfect,
go,
sell the things that thou hast,
& give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in Heaven:
and come,
follow me.

19:22
And when the young man had heard this word, he went away sad:
for he had many possessions.

19:23
And Jesus said to his Disciples:
Amen I say to you, that a rich man shall hardly enter into the Kingdom of Heaven.

19:24
And again I say to you,
it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the Kingdom of Heaven.

19:25
And when they had heard this, the Disciples marveled very much, saying:
Who then can be saved?

19:26
And Jesus beholding, said to them:
With men this is impossible:
but with God all things are possible.

19:27
Then Peter answering, said to him:
Behold we have left all things,
& have followed thee:
what therefore shall we have?

19:28
And Jesus said to them:
Amen I say to you, that you which have followed me, in the regeneration, when the Son of man shall sit in the seat of his majesty, you also shall sit upon twelve seats, judging the twelve Tribes of Israel.

19:29
And every one that hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands for my name's sake:
shall receive an hundred-fold, & shall possess life everlasting.

19:30
And many shall be first, that are last; and last, that are first.

