8:1
And when he was come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him:

8:2
And behold a Leper came and adored him saying: Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.


8:3
And Jesus stretching forth his hand, touched him, saying: I will. Be thou made clean. And forthwith, his leprosy was made clean.



8:4
And Jesus saith to him: See thou tell nobody: but go, shew thyself to the Priest, and offer the gift which Moyses commanded for a testimony to them.





8:5
And when he was entered into Capharnaum, there came to him a Centurion, beseeching him,

8:6
and saying: Lord my boy lieth at home sick of the palsy, and is sore tormented.


8:7
And Jesus saith to him: I will come, and cure him.



8:8
And the Centurion making answer, said: Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter under my roof: but only say the word, & my boy shall be healed.




8:9
For I also am a man subject to authority, having under me soldiers; and I say to this go, and he goeth, and to another, come, and he cometh; and to my servant, do this, and he doeth it.










8:10
And Jesus hearing this, marveled: and said to them that followed him: Amen I say to you, I have not found so great faith in Israel.




8:11
And I say to you that many shall come from the East and West, and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, & Jacob in the Kingdom of Heaven:

8:12
but the children of the Kingdom shall be cast out into the exterior darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.


8:13
And Jesus said to the Centurion: Go, and as thou hast believed, be it done to thee. And the boy was healed in the same hour.




8:14
And when Jesus was come into Peter's house, he saw his wife's mother laid, and in a fit of a fever:

8:15
and he touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she arose, and ministered to him.




8:16
And when evening was come, they brought to him many that had devils: and he cast out the spirits with a word: and all that were ill at ease he cured:




8:17
that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken, by Esay the Prophet, saying: He took our infirmities, and bare our diseases.


8:18
And Jesus seeing great multitudes about him, commanded to go beyond the water.

8:19
And a certain Scribe came, and said to him: Master, I will follow thee whithersoever thou shalt go.



8:20
And Jesus saith to him: The foxes have holes, and the fowls of the air nests: but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head.



8:21
And another of his Disciples said to him: Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father.


8:22
But Jesus said to him: Follow me, and let the dead bury the dead.



8:23
And when he entered into the boat, his Disciples followed him:

8:24
and lo a great tempest arose in the sea, so that the boat was covered with waves, but he slept.



8:25
And they came to him, and raised him, saying: Lord, save us, we perish.




8:26
And he saith to them: Why are you fearful, O ye of little faith? Then rising up he commanded the winds, and the sea, and there ensued a great calm.




8:27
Moreover the men marveled, saying: What an one is this, for the winds and the sea obey him.


8:28
And when he was come beyond the water, into the country of the Gerasens, there met him two that had devils, coming forth out of the sepulchres, exceeding fierce, so that none could pass by that way.


8:29
And behold they cried saying: What is between us & thee Jesus the Son of God? art thou come hither to torment us before the time.



8:30
And there was not far from them an herd of many swine feeding.

8:31
And the devils besought him saying: If thou cast us out, send us into the herd of swine.


8:32
And he said to them: Go. But they going forth went into the swine, and behold the whole herd went with a violence, headlong into the sea: and they died in the waters.





8:33
And the swineherds fled: and coming into the city, told all, and of them that had been possessed of devils.


8:34
And behold the whole city went out to meet Jesus, and when they saw him, they besought him that he would pass from their quarters.


