2:1
When Jesus therefore was born in Bethlehem of Juda in the days of Herod the king, behold there came Sages from the East to Jerusalem,

2:2
Saying, where is he that is born King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the East, and are come to adore him.



2:3
And Herod the king Hearing this, was troubled, & all Jerusalem with him.

2:4
And assembling together all the high Priests and the Scribes of the people, he inquired of them where Christ should be born.

2:5
But they said to him: In Bethlehem of Juda. For so it is written by the Prophet:



2:6
And thou Bethlehem the land of Juda, art not the least among the Princes of Juda: for out of thee shall come forth the Captain that shall rule my people Israel.


2:7
Then Herod secretly calling the Sages, learned diligently of them the time of the star which appeared to them;

2:8
and sending them into Bethlehem, said: Go, & inquire diligently of the child; and when you shall find him, make report to me, that I also may come and adore him.





2:9
Who having heard the king, went their way; and behold the star which they had seen in the East, went before them, until it came and stood over, where the child was.




2:10
And seeing the star they rejoiced with exceeding great joy.

2:11
And entering into the house, they found the child with Mary his mother, & falling down adored him; and opening their treasures, they offered to him gifts: gold, frankincense, and myrrh.



2:12
And having received an answer in sleep that they should not return to Herod, they went back another way into their country.

2:13
And after they were departed, Behold an Angel of our Lord appeared in sleep to Joseph, saying: Arise, & take the child and his mother, and fly into Ægypt; and be there until I shall tell thee. For it will come to pass that Herod will seek the child to destroy him.







2:14
Who arose, & took the child and his mother by night, and retired into Ægypt: and he was there until the death of Herod:



2:15
that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of our Lord by the Prophet, saying: Out of Ægypt have I called my Son.



2:16
Then Herod perceiving that he was deluded by the Sages, was exceeding angry; and sending murdered all the men children that were in Bethlehem, & in all the borders thereof, from two year old and under, according to the time which he had diligently sought out of the Sages.


2:17
Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the Prophet saying:

2:18
A voice in Rama was heard, crying out & much wailing: Rachel bewailing her children, & would not be comforted, because they are not.



2:19
But when Herod was dead, behold an Angel of our Lord appeared in sleep to Joseph in Ægypt.

2:20
saying: Arise, and take the child & his mother, and go into the land of Israel. For they are dead that sought the life of the child.




2:21
Who arose, & took the child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel.


2:22
But hearing that Archelaus reigned in Jewry for Herod his father, he feared to go thither: and being warned in sleep retired into the quarters of Galilee.


2:23
And coming he dwelt in a city called Nazareth: that it might be fulfilled which was said by the Prophets: That he shall be called a Nazarite.


