6:1
Take good heed that you do not your justice before men, to be seen of them:
otherwise reward you shall not have with your father which is in heaven.

6:2
Therefore when thou doest an alms-deed,
sound not a trumpet before thee, as the Hypocrites do in the Synagogues and in the streets,
that they may be honoured of men:
Amen I say to you,
they have received their reward.

6:3
But when thou doest an alms-deed, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth:
that thy alms-deed may be in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret, will repay thee.

6:5
And when ye pray, you shall not be as the hypocrites, that love to stand and pray in the Synagogues & corners of the streets,
that they may be seen of men:
Amen I say to you,
they have received their reward.

6:6
But thou when thou shalt pray, enter into thy chamber,
and having shut the door, pray to thy father in secret:
and thy father which seeth in secret, will repay thee.

6:7
And when you are praying, speak not much, as the Heathen.
For they think that in their much-speaking they may be heard.

6:8
Be not you therefore like to them,
for your father knoweth what is needful for you,
before you ask him.

6:9
Thus therefore shall you pray.
Our Father which art in heaven, sanctified be thy name.

6:10
Let thy Kingdom come.
Thy will be done, as in heaven, in earth also.

6:11
Give us today our supersubstantial bread.
And forgive us our debts,
as we also forgive our debtors,

6:13
And lead us not into tentation. But deliver us from evil.
Amen.

6:14
For if you will forgive men their offences, your heavenly father will forgive you also your offences.

6:15
But if you will not forgive men, neither will your father forgive you your offences.

6:16
And when you fast, be not as the hypocrites, sad.
For they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast.
Amen I say to you, that they have received their reward.

6:17
But thou when thou doest fast,
anoint thy head,
and wash thy face:


6:18
that thou appear not to men to fast, but to thy father which is in secret: and thy father which seeth in secret, will repay thee.

6:19
Heap not up to yourselves treasures on the earth: where the rust and moth do corrupt, & where thieves dig through and steal.

6:20
But heap up to yourselves treasures in heaven:
where neither the rust nor moth doth corrupt, and where thieves do not dig through nor steal.

6:21
For where thy treasure is, there is thy heart also.

6:22
The candle of thy body is thine eye.
If thine eye be simple, thy whole body shall be lightsome.

6:23
But if thine eye be naught: thy whole body shall be darksome.
If then the light that is in thee, be darkness: the darkness itself how great shall it be?

6:24
No man can serve two masters.
For either he will hate the one,
and love the other:
or he will sustain the one,
and contemn the other.
You cannot serve God and Mammon.

6:25
Therefore I say to you, be not careful for your life,
what you shall eat, neither for your body what raiment you shall put on.
Is not the life more than the meat:
and the body more than the raiment?

6:26
Behold the fowls of the air, that they sow not, neither reap,
nor gather into barns:
and your heavenly father feedeth them.

6:27
And which of you by caring, can add to his stature one cubit?

6:28
And for raiment why are you careful? Consider the lilies of the field how they grow:
they labour not,
neither do they spin.


6:29
But I say to you, that neither Salomon in all his glory was arrayed as one of these.

6:30
And if the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, God doth so clothe: how much more you, O ye of very small faith?

6:31
Be not careful therefore, saying,
what shall we eat,
or what shall we drink,
or wherewith shall we be covered?

6:32
for all these things the Heathen do seek after.
For your father knoweth that you need all these things.

6:33
Seek therefore first the Kingdom of God, and the justice of him,
and all these things shall be given you besides.

6:34
Be not careful therefore for the morrow;
for the morrow day will be careful for itself.
Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.

