3:1
And I, brethren, could not speak to you as to spiritual, but as to carnal. As it were to little ones in Christ,

3:2
I gave you milk to drink, not meat: for you could not as yet. But neither can you now verily, for yet you are carnal.




3:3
For whereas there is among you emulation and contention, are you not carnal, and walk according to man?


3:4
For when one saith, I certes am Paul's, & another, I Apollo's; are you not men? What is Apollo then? and what is Paul?







3:5
The Ministers of him whom you have believed, and to every one as our Lord hath given.


3:6
I planted, Apollo watered; but God gave the increase.



3:7
Therefore neither he that planteth is any thing, nor he that watereth; but he that giveth the increase, God.



3:8
And he that planteth and he that watereth are one. And every one shall receive his own reward according to his own labour.




3:9
For we are God's coadjutors; you are God's husbandry, you are God's building.



3:10
According to the grace that is given me, as a wise workmaster have I laid the foundation: and another buildeth thereupon. But let every one look how he buildeth thereon.



3:11
For other foundation no man can lay, beside that which is laid; which is Christ Jesus.

3:12
And if any man build upon this foundation, gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble,

3:13
the work of every one shall be manifest: for the day of our Lord will declare, because it shall be revealed in fire: and the work of every one of what kind it is, the fire shall try.


3:14
If any man's work abide, which he built thereupon; he shall receive reward.

3:15
If any man's work burn, he shall suffer detriment: but himself shall be saved: yet so as by fire.


3:16
Know you not that you are the temple of God; and the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?


3:17
But if any violate the temple of God, God will destroy him. For the temple of God is holy: which you are.


3:18
Let no man seduce himself: if any man seem to be wise among you in this world, let him become a fool that he may be wise.


3:19
For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written: I will compass the wise in their subtlety.



3:20
And again, Our Lord knoweth the cogitations of the wise that they be vain.


3:21
Let no man therefore glory in men. For all things are yours:


3:22
whether it be Paul, or Apollo, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come; for all are yours:

3:23
and you are Christ's, and Christ is God's.


