9:1
AM I not free? Am I not an Apostle? Have I not seen Christ Jesus our Lord? Are not you my work in our Lord?




9:2
And if to others I be not an Apostle, but yet to you I am. For you are the seal of my Apostleship in our Lord.


9:3
my defence to them that examine me is this.

9:4
Have not we power to eat and drink?

9:5
Have we not power to lead about a woman a sister, as also the rest of the Apostles, and our Lord's brethren, and Cephas?

9:6
Or I only and Barnabas have not we power to do this?

9:7
Who ever playeth the soldier at his own charges? who planteth a vine, and eateth not of the fruit thereof? Who feedeth a flock, and eateth not of the milk of the flock?





9:8
Speak I these things according to man? Or doth not the Law also say these things?


9:9
For it is written in the Law of Moyses: Thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn. Why, hath God care of oxen?



9:10
Or for us certes doth he say it? For they are written for us. Because he that eareth, ought to ear in hope: and he that treadeth, in hope to receive fruit.



9:11
If we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great matter if we reap your carnal things?

9:12
If other be partakers of your power; why not we rather? Howbeit we have not used, this power: but we bear all things, lest we should give any offence to the Gospel of Christ.




9:13
Know you not that they which work in the holy place, eat the things that are of the holy place: and they that serve the altar, participate with the altar?


9:14
So also our Lord ordained for them that preach the Gospel, to live of the Gospel.

9:15
But I have used none of these. Neither have I written these things, that they should be so done in me; for it is good for me to die rather, than that any man should make my glory void.




9:16
For & if I evangelize, it is no glory to me: for necessity lieth upon me: for woe is to me if I evangelize not.




9:17
For if I do this willingly, I have reward: but if against my will, a charge is committed to me.


9:18
What is my reward then? That preaching the Gospel, I yield the Gospel without cost, that I abuse not my power in the Gospel.



9:19
For whereas I was free of all, I made myself the servant of all: that I might gain the more.


9:20
And I became to the Jews as a Jew, that I might gain the Jews.


9:21
To them that are under the Law, as though I were under the Law (whereas myself was not under the Law) that I might gain them that were under the Law. To them that were without the Law, as though I were without the Law (whereas I was not without the law of God, but was in the law of Christ) that I might gain them that were without the Law.




9:22
To the weak I became weak, that I might gain the weak. To all men I became all things, that I might save all.




9:23
And I do all things for the Gospel, that I may be made partaker thereof.


9:24
Know you not that they that run in the race, all run indeed, but one receiveth the prize? So run that you may obtain.




9:25
And every one the striveth for the mastery, refraineth himself from all things: and they certes, that they may receive a corruptible crown: but we an incorruptible.



9:26
Itherefore so run, not as it were at an uncertain thing: so I fight, not as it were beating the air:


9:27
But I chastise my body, and bring it into servitude, lest perhaps when I have preached to others, myself become reprobate.



