2:1
IF therefore there be any consolation in Christ, if any solace of charity, if any society of spirit, if any bowels of commiseration; fulfill my joy, that you be of one meaning, having the same charity, of one mind, agreeing in one.
Nothing by contention, neither by vain glory: but in humility, each counting other better than themselves: every one not considering the things that are their own, but those that are other men's.

2:5
For this think in yourselves, which also in Christ Jesus;

2:6
who when he was in the form of God, thought it no robbery, himself to be equal to God:

2:7
but he exinanited himself, taking the form of a servant, made into the similitude of men, and in shape found as a man.

2:8
He humbled himself, made obedient unto death: even the death of the cross.

2:9
For the which thing God also hath exalted him, and hath given him a name which is above all names:
that in the name of Jesus every knee bow of the celestials, terrestrials, and infernals:
and every tongue confess that our Lord Jesus Christ is in the glory of God the Father.
Therefore, my Dearest, (as you have always obeyed) not as in the presence of me only, but much more now in my absence, with fear and trembling work your salvation.

2:13
For it is God that worketh in you both to will and to accomplish, according to his good will.

2:14
And do ye all things without murmurings and staggerings: that you may be without blame, and the simple children of God, without reprehension in the midst of a crooked and perverse Generation.
Among whom you shine as lights in the world:
containing the word of life to my glory in the day of Christ, because I have not run in vain, nor in vain laboured.

2:17
But and if I be immolated, upon the Sacrifice and service of your faith,
I rejoice and congratulate with you all.

2:18
And the self-same thing do you also rejoice,
and congratulate with me.

2:19
And I hope in our Lord Jesus, to send Timothee unto you quickly, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know the things pertaining to you.

2:20
For I have no man so of one mind that with sincere affection is careful for you.

2:21
For all seek the things that are their own;
not the things that are Jesus Christ's.

2:22
And know ye an experiment of him, that as a son the Father, so hath he served with me in the Gospel.

2:23
This man therefore I hope to send unto you,
immediately as I shall see the things that concern me.

2:24
And I trust in our Lord that myself also shall come to you quickly.

2:25
But I have thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus my brother and coadjutor and fellow-soldier, but your Apostle, and minister of my necessity.
Because indeed he had a desire toward you all:
and was pensive, for that you had heard that he was sick.

2:27
For indeed he was sick even to death:
but God had mercy on him:
and not only on him,
but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.

2:28
Therefore I sent him the more speedily: that seeing him,
you may rejoice again,
and I may be without sorrow.

2:29
Receive him therefore with all joy in our Lord:
and such entreat with honour.
because for the work of Christ, he came to the point of death:
yielding his life, that he might fulfill that which on your part wanted toward my service.

