1:1
Paul and Timothee the servants of Jesus Christ; to all the saints in Christ Jesus that are at Philippi, with the Bishops and Deacons.

1:2
Grace to you and peace from God our Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ.

1:3
I give thanks to my God in all memory of you (always in all my prayers for all you, with joy making petition) for your communicating in the Gospel of Christ from the first day until now. trusting this same thing, that he which hath begun in you a good work, will perfit it unto the day of Christ Jesus.

1:7
As it is reason for me, this to think for all you,
for that I have you in heart, & in my bands, and in the defence, and the confirmation of the Gospel, all you to be partakers of my joy.

1:8
For God is my witness, how I covet you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ. And this I pray, that your charity may more and more abound in knowledge and in all understanding: that you may approve the better things, that you may be sincere and without offence unto the day of Christ, replenished with the fruit of justice by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.

1:12
And I will have you know, brethren, that the things about me are come to the more furtherance of the Gospel:
so that my bands were made manifest in Christ in all the court, and in all the rest,
that many of our brethren in our Lord, having confidence in my bands, were bold more aboundantly without fear to speak the word of God.

1:15
Some indeed even for envy and contention:
but some also for good will preach Christ.

1:16
Some of charity: knowing that I am set unto the defence of the Gospel.

1:17
And some of contention preach Christ not sincerely: supposing that they raise affliction to my bands.

1:18
But what? So that by all means, whether by occasion, or by truth, Christ be preached: in this also I rejoice, yea & will rejoice.
For I know that this shall fall out to me unto salvation by your prayer and the subministration of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, according to my expectation & hope;
because in nothing shall I be confounded, but in all confidence as always, now also shall Christ be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.

1:21
For unto me, to live is Christ: and to die is gain.

1:22
And if to live in the flesh, this unto me be the fruit of the work,
and what I shall choose I know not.

1:23
And I am straitened of the two: having desire to be dissolved & to be with Christ, a thing much more better.

1:24
But to abide in the flesh, necessary for you.

1:25
And trusting this, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all, unto your furtherance and joy of the faith: that your gratulation may abound in Christ Jesus in me, by my coming again to you. Only converse ye worthy of the Gospel of Christ: that whether when I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of you that you stand in one Spirit, of one mind labouring together to the faith of the Gospel.
And in nothing be ye terrified of the adversaries, which to them is cause of perdition: but to you of salvation, & this of God: for to you it is given for Christ, not only that you believe in him, but also that you suffer for him, having the same combat like as you have seen in me, and now have heard of me.

