12:1
And he began to speak to them in parables:
A man planted a vineyard
and made a hedge about it,
and digged a trough,
and built a tower,
and let it out to husbandmen;
and went forth into a strange country.

12:2
And he sent to the husbandmen in season a servant,
to receive of the husbandmen, of the fruit of the vineyard.

12:3
Who apprehending him, beat him;
and sent him away empty.

12:4
And again he sent to them another servant;
and him they wounded in the head,
and used him reproachfully.

12:5
And again he sent another, & him they killed:
and many other, beating certain, and killing others.

12:6
Therefore having yet one son most dear; him also he sent unto them last saying:
That they will reverence my son.

12:7
But the husbandmen said one to another.
This is the heir;
come,
let us kill him;
and the inheritance shall be ours.

12:8
And apprehending him, they killed him,
and cast him forth out of the vineyard.

12:9
What therefore will the Lord of the vineyard do?
He will come
and destroy the husbandmen;
and will give the vineyard to others.

12:10
Neither have you read this scripture, The stone which the builders rejected;
the same is made the head of the corner:

12:11
By our Lord was this done,
and it is marvelous in our eyes?

12:12
And they sought to lay hands on him,
and they feared the multitude.
For they knew that he spake this parable to them.
And leaving him they went their way.

12:13
And they send to him certain of the Pharisees and of the Herodians;
that they should entrap him in his word.

12:14
Who coming, say to him:
Master, we know that thou art a true speaker,
and carest not for any man;
for thou doest not look upon the person of men,
but teachest the way of God in truth.
Is it lawful to give tribute to Cæsar;
or shall we not give it?

12:15
Who knowing their subtlety, said to them:
Why tempt you me?
Bring me a penny
that I may see it.

12:16
But they brought it him.
And he saith to them:
Whose is this image, and inscription?
They say to him,
Cæsar's.

12:17
And Jesus answering, said to them:
Render therefore the things that are Cæsar's, to Cæsar;
and that are God's, to God.
And they marveled at him.

12:18
And there came to him the Saducees that say there is no resurrection;
and they asked him saying: Master,

12:19
Moyses wrote unto us, that if any man's brother die, and leave his wife, and leave no children, his brother shall take his wife and raise up seed to his brother.

12:20
There were therefore seven brethren;
and the first took a wife,
and died leaving no issue.

12:21
And the second took her,
and died:
and neither this left issue.
And the third in like manner.

12:22
And the seven took her in like sort;
and did not leave issue.
Last of all the woman also died.

12:23
In the resurrection therefore when they shall rise again, whose wife shall she be of these?
For the seven had her to wife.

12:24
And Jesus answering, said to them:
Do ye not therefore err, not knowing the scriptures, nor the power of God?

12:25
For when they shall rise again from the dead, they shall neither marry,
nor be married,
but are as the Angels in Heaven.

12:26
And as concerning the dead, that they do rise again, have you not read in the book of Moyses, how in the bush God spake to him, saying:
I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?

12:27
He is not the God of the dead, but of the living.
You therefore are much deceived.

12:28
And there came one of the Scribes that had heard them questioning,
and seeing that he had well answered them, asked him which was the first commandment of all.

12:29
And Jesus answered him:
That the first commandment of all is,
Hear Israel:
the Lord thy God, is one God.

12:30
And thou shalt love the Lord thy God from thy whole heart, and with thy whole soul, and with thy whole mind, and with thy whole power.
This is the first commandment.

12:31
And the second is like to it:
Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.
Another commandment greater than these there is not.

12:32
And the Scribe said to him:
Well Master, thou hast said in truth,
that there is one God, and there is none other besides him.

12:33
And that he be loved from the whole heart, and with the whole understanding, and with the whole soul, and with the whole strength: and to love his neighbour as himself, is a greater thing than all holocausts and sacrifices.

12:34
And Jesus seeing that he had answered wisely, said to him:
Thou art not far from the Kingdom of God.
And no man now durst ask him.

12:35
And Jesus answering, said, teaching in the temple:
How do the Scribes say, that Christ is the son of David?

12:36
For David himself saith in the Holy Ghost:
Our Lord said to my Lord,
sit on my right hand,
until I put thine enemies the foot-stool of thy feet.

12:37
David therefore himself calleth him Lord,
and whence is he his son?
And a great multitude heard him gladly.

12:38
And he said to them in his doctrine:
Take heed of the Scribes that will walk in long robes, and be saluted in the market-place, And sit in the first chairs in the Synagogues, and love the highest places at suppers:

12:40
Which devour widows' houses under the pretence of long prayer: these shall receive larger judgement.

12:41
And Jesus sitting over against the treasury, beheld how the multitude did cast money into the treasury,
and many rich men did cast in much.

12:42
And when there came a certain poor widow, she cast in two mites, which is a farthing.

12:43
And calling his Disciples together,
he saith to them, Amen I say to you, that this poor widow hath cast in more than all that have cast into the treasury.

12:44
For all they of their aboundance have cast in;
but she, of her penury hath cast in all that she had, her whole living.

