7:1
And there assemble together unto him the Pharisees and certain of the Scribes, coming from Jerusalem.

7:2
And when they had seen certain of his Disciples eat bread with common hands, that is,
not washed,
they blamed them.

7:3
For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, unless they often wash their hands, eat not, holding the tradition of the Ancients:

7:4
And from the market, unless they be washed, they eat not:
and many other things there be that were delivered unto them to observe, the washings of cups and cruses, and of brazen vessels & beds.

7:5
And the Pharisees and Scribes asked him:
Why do not thy Disciples walk according to the tradition of the Ancients,
but they eat bread with common hands?

7:6
But he answering,
said to them: Well did Esay Prophesy of you Hypocrites, as it is written:
This people honoureth me with their lips,
but their heart is far from me.

7:7
And in vain do they worship me, teaching doctrines precepts of men.

7:8
For leaving the commandment of God, you hold the traditions of men, the washings of cruses and cups:
& many other things you do like to these.

7:9
And he said to them,
well do you frustrate the precept of God,
that you may observe your own tradition.

7:10
For Moyses said:
Honour thy father and thy mother;
and, He that shall curse father or mother, dying let him die.

7:11
But you say:
If a man say to father or mother, Corban
(which is a gift)
whatsoever proceedeth from me, shall profit thee: And further you suffer him not to do ought for his father or mother,

7:13
defeating the word of God for your own tradition which you have given forth. And many other things of this sort you do.

7:14
And calling again the multitude unto him, he said to them:
Hear me all you,
and understand.

7:15
Nothing is without a man entering into him, that can defile him.
But the things that proceed from a man those are they that make a man common.

7:16
If any man have ears to hear, let him hear.

7:17
And when he was entered into the house from the multitude, his Disciples asked him the parable.

7:18
And he saith to them:
So are you also unskillful?
Understand you not that every thing from without, entering into a man, cannot make him common:

7:19
because it entereth not into his heart, but goeth into the belly,
and is cast out into the privy, purging all the meats?

7:20
But he said that the things which come forth from a man, they make a man common.

7:21
For from within out of the heart of men proceed evil cogitations, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, avarices, wickedness, guile, impudicities, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness.

7:23
All these evils proceed from within,
and make a man common.

7:24
And rising from thence he went into the coasts of Tyre and Sidon:
and entering into a house, he would that no man should know,
and he could not be hid.

7:25
For a woman immediately as she heard of him, whose daughter had an unclean spirit, entered in,
and fell down at his feet.

7:26
For the woman was a Gentile, a Syrophænician born.
And she besought him that he would cast forth the devil out of her daughter.

7:27
Who said to her:
Suffer first the children to be filled.
For it is not good to take the children's bread, and cast it to the dogs.

7:28
But she answered,
and said to him:
Yea Lord; for the whelps also eat under the table of the crumbs of the children.

7:29
And he said to her:
For this saying go thy way,
the devil is gone out of thy daughter.

7:30
And when she was departed into her house, she found the maid lying upon the bed, and the devil gone out.

7:31
And again going out of the coasts of Tyre, he came by Sidon to the sea of Galilee through the midst of the coasts of Decapolis.

7:32
And they bring to him one deaf and dumb;
and they besought him that he would impose his hand upon him.

7:33
And taking him from the multitude apart, he put his fingers into his ears, and spitting,
touched his tongue;

7:34
And looking up unto Heaven,
he groaned, and said to him:
Ephphetha,
which is, Be thou opened.

7:35
And immediately his ears were opened,
and the string of his tongue was loosed,
and he spake right.

7:36
And he commanded them not to tell anybody.
But how much he commanded them, so much the more a great deal did they publish it.

7:37
And so much the more did they wonder, saying:
He hath done all things well;
he hath made both the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak.

