3:1
And he entered again into the Synagogue, and there was a man there that had a withered hand.


3:2
And they watched him whether he would cure on the Sabboths; that they might accuse him.


3:3
And he saith to the man that had the withered hand: rise up into the midst.


3:4
And he saith to them: Is it lawful on the Sabboths to do well or ill? to save a soul, or to destroy? but they held their peace.




3:5
And looking round about upon them with anger, being sorrowful for the blindness of their heart, he saith to the man: Stretch forth thy hand. And he stretched it forth; and his hand was restored unto him.




3:6
And the Pharisees going forth, immediately made a consultation with the Herodians against him, how they might destroy him.

3:7
But Jesus with his Disciples retired to the sea: and a great multitude from Galilee & Jewry followed him,


3:8
and from Jerusalem, & from Idumæa, and beyond Jordan. And they about Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, hearing the things which he did, came to him.

3:9
And he spake to his Disciples that a boat might attend on him because of the multitude, lest they should throng him.


3:10
For he healed many, so that there pressed in upon him for to touch him, as many had hurts.




3:11
And the unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down unto him: and they cried saying:


3:12
Thou art the Son of God. And he vehemently charged them that they should not disclose him.



3:13
And ascending into a mountain, he called unto him whom he would himself, and they came to him.


3:14
And he made that twelve should be with him, and that he might send them to preach.


3:15
And he gave them power to cure infirmities, and to cast out devils.

3:16
And he gave to Simon the name Peter.

3:17
And James of Zebedee, and John the brother of James; and he called their names, Boanerges, which is, the sons of thunder.




3:20
And they come to a house; and the multitude resorteth together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread.



3:21
And when his had heard of it, they went forth to lay hands on him. For they said that he was become mad.


3:22
And the Scribes which were come down from Jerusalem, said: That he hath Beelzebub; and that in the prince of devils he casteth out devils.

3:23
And after he had called them together, he said to them in parables: How can Satan cast out Satan?


3:24
And if a Kingdom be divided against itself, that Kingdom cannot stand.

3:25
And if a house be divided against itself, that house cannot stand.

3:26
And if Satan be risen against himself, he is divided, and cannot stand, but hath an end.



3:27
Nobody can rifle the vessels of the strong, being entered into his house, unless he first bind the strong, & then shall he rifle his house.



3:28
Amen I say to you, that all sins shall be forgiven the sons of men, & the blasphemies wherewith they shall blaspheme:

3:29
But he that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost, he hath not forgiveness for ever, but shall be guilty of an eternal sin. Because they said: He hath an unclean spirit.


3:30
And there come his mother and brethren; and standing without they sent unto him calling him,


3:31
And the multitude sat about him; and they say to him:



3:32
Behold thy mother and thy brethren without seek thee.


3:33
And answering them, he said: Who is my mother and my brethren?


3:34
And looking upon them which sat round about him, he saith: Behold my mother and my brethren.


3:35
For whosoever shall do the will of God, he is my brother and my sister and mother.

