9:1
And after six days Jesus taketh Peter and James and John,
and bringeth them alone into a high mountain apart,
and was transfigured before them.

9:2
And his garments were made glistering and white exceedingly as snow, the like whereof a fuller cannot make white upon the earth.

9:3
And there appeared to them Elias with Moyses;
and they were talking with Jesus.

9:4
And Peter answering, said to Jesus:
Rabbi, it is good for us to be here;
and let us make three tabernacles,
one for thee, and one for Moyses, and one for Elias.

9:5
For he knew not what he said;
for they were frighted with fear:

9:6
And there was a cloud overshadowing them,
and a voice came out of the cloud, saying:
This is my Son most dear:
hear ye him.

9:7
And immediately looking about, they saw no man any more but Jesus only with them.

9:8
And as they descended from the mountain, he commanded them that they should not tell any man what things they had seen,
but when the Son of man shall be risen again from the dead.

9:9
And they kept in the word with themselves; questioning together what that should be, when he shall be risen from the dead.

9:10
And they asked him, saying:
What say the Pharisees then and the Scribes, that Elias must come first?

9:11
Who answering said to them:
Elias when he cometh first, shall restore all things:
and how it is written of the Son of man, that he shall suffer many things and be contemned.

9:12
But I say to you that Elias also is come
(and they have done to him whatsoever they would) as it is written of him.

9:13
And coming to his Disciples, he saw a great multitude about them, and the Scribes questioning with them.

9:14
And forthwith all the people seeing Jesus, was astonished, and much afraid:
and running to him, saluted him.

9:15
And he asked them,
what do you question of among you?

9:16
And one of the multitude answering, said:
Master, I have brought my son to thee, having a dumb spirit,

9:17
Who, wheresoever he taketh him, dasheth him,
and he foameth,
and gnasheth with the teeth,
and withereth:
and I spake to thy Disciples to cast him out,
and they could not.

9:18
Who answering them, said:
O incredulous generation, how long shall I be with you?
how long shall I suffer you?
Bring him unto me.

9:19
And they brought him.
And when he had seen him, immediately the spirit troubled him;
and being thrown upon the ground, he tumbled foaming.

9:20
And he asked his father: How long time is it
since this hath chanced unto him?
But he said:
From his infancy:

9:21
And oftentimes hath he cast him into fire and into waters,
to destroy him.
But if thou canst any thing, help us, having compassion on us.

9:22
And Jesus said to him:
If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth.

9:23
And incontinent the father of the boy crying out, with tears said:
I do believe Lord;
help my incredulity.

9:24
And when Jesus saw the people running together, he threatened the unclean spirit, saying to him:
Deaf and dumb Spirit, I command thee,
go out of him,
and enter not any more into him.

9:25
And crying out; and greatly tearing him, he went out of him,
and he became as dead,
so that many said, that he is dead.

9:26
But Jesus holding his hand, lifted him up;
and he rose.

9:27
And when he was entered into the house, his Disciples secretly asked him,
why could not we cast him out?

9:28
And he said to them:
This kind can go out by nothing but by prayer and fasting.

9:29
And departing thence they passed by Galilee,
neither would he that any man should know.

9:30
And he taught his Disciples,
and said to them:
That the Son of man shall be betrayed into the hands of men,
and they shall kill him,
and being killed the third day he shall rise again.

9:31
But they knew not the word:
and they were afraid to ask him.

9:32
And they came to Capharnaum.
Who, when he was in the house,
asked them, what did you treat of in the way?

9:33
But they held their peace,
for in the way they had disputed among themselves, which of them should be the greater.

9:34
And sitting down, he called the Twelve,
and saith to them:
If any man will be first, he shall be last of all, and the minister of all.

9:35
And taking a child, he set him in the midst of them.
Whom when he had embraced, he said to them:

9:36
Whosoever shall receive one of such children in my name, receiveth me.
And Whosoever shall receive me, receiveth not me, but him that sent me.

9:37
John answered him,
saying: Master we saw one casting out devils in thy name, who followeth not us,
and we prohibited him.

9:38
But Jesus said:
Do not prohibit him.
For there is no man that doth a miracle in my name, and can soon speak ill of me.

9:39
For he that is not against you, is for you.

9:40
For Whosoever shall give you to drink a cup of water in my name, because you are Christ's;
amen I say to you,
he shall not lose his reward.

9:41
And whosoever shall scandalize one of these little ones believing in me; it is good for him rather if a millstone were put about his neck, and he were cast into the sea.

9:42
And if thy hand scandalize thee, cut it off.
It is good for thee to enter into life, maimed, than having two hands to go into hell, into the fire unquenchable, where their worm dieth not,
and the fire quencheth not.

9:44
And if thy foot scandalize thee, chop it off.
It is good for thee to enter into life everlasting, lame, rather than having two feet, to be cast into the hell of unquenchable fire, where their worm dieth not,
and the fire quencheth not.

9:46
And if thine eye scandalize thee, cast it out.
It is good for thee with one eye to enter into the Kingdom of God, rather than having two eyes, to be cast into the hell of fire, where their worm dieth not,
and the fire quencheth not.

9:48
For every one shall be salted with fire:
and every victim shall be salted with salt.

9:49
Salt is good.
But if the salt shall be unseasoned; wherewith will you season it?
Have salt in you,
and have peace among you.
