1:1
The beginning of the Gospel of Jesus Christ the Son of God.

1:2
As it is written in Esay the Prophet : ( Behold I send mine Angel before thy face, who shall prepare thy way before thee.)


1:3
A voice of one crying in the desert. Prepare ye the way of our Lord, make straight his paths.



1:4
John was in the desert baptizing, and preaching the Baptism of penance unto remission of sins.



1:6
And John was clothed with camel's hair, and a girdle of a skin about his loins: and he did eat locusts and wild honey.


1:7
And he preached, saying: There cometh a stronger than I after me, whose latchet of his shoes I am not worthy stooping down to loose.


1:8
I have baptized you with water; but he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost.


1:9
And it came to pass, in those days came Jesus from Nazareth of Galilee; and was baptized of John in Jordan.



1:10
And forthwith coming up out of the water, he saw the Heavens opened, and the Spirit as a dove descending, and remaining on him.

1:11
And a voice was made from Heaven: Thou art my beloved Son, in thee I am well pleased.



1:12
And forthwith the Spirit drove him out into the desert.


1:13
And he was in the desert forty days, and forty nights: and was tempted of Satan, and he was with beasts, and the Angels ministered to him.



1:14
And after that John was delivered up, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the Gospel of the Kingdom of God,

1:15
and saying: That the time is fulfilled, and the Kingdom of God is at hand: be penitent, and believe the Gospel.




1:16
And passing by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew his brother, casting nets into the sea (for they were fishers)



1:17
and Jesus said to them: Come after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men.


1:18
And immediately leaving their nets, they followed him.

1:19
And being gone thence a little further, he saw James of Zebedee, and John his brother, and them repairing their nets in the ship:

1:20
and forthwith he called them. And leaving their father Zebedee in the ship with his hired men, they followed him.


1:21
And they enter into Capharnaum, and he forthwith upon the Sabboths going into the Synagogue, taught them.


1:22
And they were astonished at his doctrine. For he was teaching them as having power, and not as the Scribes.


1:23
And there was in their Synagogue a man in an unclean Spirit; and he cried out,


1:24
saying: What to us and to thee Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know who thou art, the Saint of God.




1:25
And Jesus threatened him, saying: Hold thy peace, and go out of the man.



1:26
And the unclean Spirit tearing him, and crying out with a great voice, went out of him.

1:27
And they marveled all, in so much that they questioned among themselves, saying: What thing is this? What is this new doctrine? For with power he commandeth the unclean spirits also, and they obey him.






1:28
And the bruit of him went forth incontinent into all the country of Galilee.

1:29
And immediately going forth out of the Synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.

1:30
And Simon's wife's mother lay in a fit of a fever: and forthwith they tell him of her.


1:31
And coming near he lifted her up taking her by the hand: and incontinent the ague left her, and she ministered unto them.



1:32
And when it was evening after sun set, they brought to him all that were ill at ease and that had devils.

1:33
And all the city was gathered together at the door.

1:34
And he cured many that were vexed with diverse diseases; and he cast out many devils, and he suffered not them to speak that they knew him.




1:35
And rising very early, and going forth he went into a desert place: and there he prayed.


1:36
And Simon sought after him, and they that were with him.


1:37
And when they had found him, they said to him, That all seek for thee.


1:38
And he saith to them: Let us go into the next towns and cities, that I may preach there also; for to this purpose am I come.




1:39
And he was preaching in their Synagogues, and in all Galilee, and casting out devils.

1:40
And a leper cometh to him beseeching him; and kneeling down saith to him: If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.



1:41
And Jesus having compassion on him, stretched forth his hand; and touching him, he saith unto him: I will. Be thou made clean.




1:42
And when he had spoken, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was made clean.


1:43
And he threatened him, and forthwith cast him forth.


1:44
And he saith to him: See thou tell nobody, but go, shew thyself to the high Priest, and offer for thy cleansing the things that Moyses commanded, for a testimony to them.




1:45
But he being gone forth, began to publish, and to blase abroad the word: so that now he could not openly go into the city, but was abroad in desert places, and they came together unto him from all sides.



