16:1
And when the Sabboth was past, Mary Magdalene and Mary of James, and Salome bought spices, that coming they might anoint Jesus.


16:2
And very early the first of the Sabboths, they come to the monument, the sun being now risen.

16:3
And they said one to another: Who shall roll us back the stone from the door of the monument?


16:4
And looking, they saw the stone rolled back. For it was very great.


16:5
And entering into the monument, they saw a young man sitting on the right hand covered with a white robe: and they were astonished.


16:6
Who saith to them: Be not dismayed; you seek Jesus of Nazareth, that was crucified; he is risen, he is not here, behold the place where they laid him.






16:7
But go, tell his Disciples and Peter that he goeth before you into Galilee; there you shall see him, as he told you.




16:8
But they going forth, fled from the monument. For trembling and fear had invaded them: and they said nothing to anybody, for they were afraid.




16:9
And he rising early the first of the Sabboth, appeared first to Mary Magdalen, out of whom he had cast seven devils.

16:10
She went and told them that had been with him, that were mourning & weeping.

16:11
And they hearing that he was alive and had been seen of her, did not believe.



16:12
And after this he appeared in another shape to two of them walking, as they were going into the country.

16:13
And they going told the rest: neither them did they believe.


16:14
Last he appeared to those eleven as they sat at the table; and he exprobrated their incredulity and hardness of heart, because they did not believe them that had seen him risen again.



16:15
And he said to them: Going into the whole world preach the Gospel to all creatures.


16:16
He that believeth and is baptized, shall be saved; but he that believeth not, shall be condemned.


16:17
And them that believe these signs shall follow: In my name shall they cast out devils; They shall speak with new tongues;



16:18
Serpents shall they take away; And if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; They shall impose hands upon the sick and they shall be whole.




16:19
And so our Lord Jesus after he spake unto them, was assumpted into Heaven, and sat on the right hand of God.


16:20
But they going forth preached every-where: our Lord working withal, and confirming the word with signs that followed.

