5:1
And they came beyond the strait of the sea into the country of the Gerasens.

5:2
And as he went out of the boat, immediately there met him out of the sepulchres a man in an unclean spirit,


5:4
For being often bound with fetters and chains, he had burst the chains, and broken the fetters, and nobody could tame him.



5:5
And he was always day and night in the sepulchres and in the mountains, crying and cutting himself with stones.

5:6
And seeing Jesus a far off, he ran and adored him:


5:7
And crying with a great voice, said: What to me and thee Jesus, the Son of God most high: I adjure thee by God that thou torment me not.




5:8
For he said unto him: Go out of the man thou unclean spirit.


5:9
And he asked him, what is thy name? And he saith to him: My name is Legion; because we are many.




5:10
And he besought him much, that he would not expel him out of the country.


5:11
And there was there about the mountain a great herd of swine, feeding.

5:12
And the spirits besought him, saying: Send us into the swine, that we may enter into them.



5:13
And Jesus immediately granted unto them. And the unclean spirits going out entered into the swine: and the herd with great violence was carried headlong into the sea, about two thousand, and were stifled in the sea.




5:14
And they that fed them, fled and carried news into the city and into the fields. And they went forth to see what was done:



5:15
And they come to Jesus, and they see him that was vexed of the devil, sitting, clothed, and well in his wits: & they were afraid.



5:16
And they that had seen it, told them, in what manner he had been dealt withal that had the devil; & of the swine.

5:17
And they began to desire him, that he would depart from their coasts.

5:18
And when he went up into the boat, he that had been vexed of the devil, began to beseech him that he might be with him:



5:19
And he admitted him not, but saith to him: Go into thy house to thine, and tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee, and hath had mercy upon thee.



5:20
And he went his way, and began to publish in Decapolis how great things Jesus had done to him: and all marveled.



5:21
And when Jesus had passed in boat again over the strait, a great multitude assembled together unto him, and he was about the sea.


5:22
And there cometh one of the Arch-synagogues, named Jairus: and seeing him, he falleth down at his feet.



5:23
And besought him much, saying: That my daughter is at the point of death, come, impose thy hands upon her, that she may be safe and live.




5:24
And he went with him, and a great multitude followed him, and they thronged him.



5:25
And a woman which was in an issue of blood twelve years,







5:28
For she said: That if I shall touch but his garment, I shall be safe.

5:29
And forthwith the fountain of her blood was dried; and she felt in her body that she was healed of the malady.


5:30
And immediately Jesus knowing in himself the virtue that had proceeded from him, turning to the multitude, said: Who hath touched my garments?


5:31
And his Disciples said to him: Thou seest the multitude thronging thee, & sayest thou, who hath touched me?




5:32
And he looked about to see her that had done this.

5:33
But the woman fearing and trembling, knowing what was done in her, came and fell down before him, and told him all the truth.



5:34
And he said to her: Daughter, thy faith hath made thee safe, go in peace, and be whole of thy malady.




5:35
As he was yet speaking, they come to the Archsynagogue, saying: That thy daughter is dead: why doest thou trouble the Master any further?


5:36
But Jesus having heard the word that was spoken, saith to the Archsynagogue: Fear not, only believe.



5:37
And he admitted not any man to follow him, but Peter & James and John the brother of James.

5:38
And they come to the Archsynagogue's house, and he seeth a tumult, and folk weeping and wailing much.


5:39
And going in, he saith to them: Why make you this ado and weep? the wench is not dead, but sleepeth.





5:40
And they derided him. But he having put forth all, taketh the father and the mother of the wench, and them that were with him, and they go in where the wench was lying.




5:41
And holding the wench's hand, he saith to her: Talitha cumi, which is being interpreted, wench (I say to thee) arise.




5:42
And forthwith the wench rose up, and walked, and she was twelve years old: and they were astonished with great astonishment.




5:43
And he commanded them earnestly that nobody should know it: and he bade that something should be given her to eat.



