11:1
And when they came nigh unto Jerusalem and Bethania to Mount-olivet,
he sendeth two of his Disciples,

11:2
and saith to them: Go into the town that is against you,
and immediately entering in thither, you shall find a colt tied, upon which no man yet hath sitten:
loose him,
and bring him.

11:3
And if any man shall say to you,
what do you? Say that he is needful for our Lord:
and incontinent he will send him hither.


11:4
And going their ways, they found the colt tied before the gate without in the meeting of two ways:
and they loose him.

11:5
And certain of them that stood there, said to them:
What do you loosing the colt?

11:6
Who said to them as Jesus had commanded them;
and they did let him go with them.


11:7
And they brought the colt to Jesus;
and they lay their garments upon him,
and he sat upon him.

11:8
And many spread their garments in the way:
and others did cut boughs from the trees,
and strawed them in the way.

11:9
And they that went before and they that followed,
cried saying:
Hosanna,
blessed is he that cometh in the name of our Lord.


11:10
Blessed is the Kingdom of our father David that cometh,
Hosanna in the highest.

11:11
And he entered Jerusalem into the temple;
and having viewed all things round about, when now the evening hour was come, he went forth into Bethania with the Twelve.

11:12
And the next day when they departed from Bethania, he was an hungered.

11:13
And when he had seen a far off a figtree having leaves,
he came if happily he could find any thing on it.
And when he was come to it, he found nothing but leaves.
For it was not the time for figs.

11:14
And answering he said to it:
Now no man eat fruit of thee any more for ever.
And his Disciples heard it.

11:15
And they come to Jerusalem.
And when he was entered into the temple, he began to cast out them that sold and bought in the temple,
and the tables of the bankers, and the chairs of them that sold pigeons he overthrew.

11:16
And he suffered not that any man should carry a vessel through the temple;

11:17
And he taught,
saying to them; Is it not written,
That my house shall be called the house of prayer to all nations? But you have made it a den of thieves.

11:18
Which when the chief Priests and the Scribes had heard, they sought how they might destroy him.
For they were afraid of him, because the whole multitude was in admiration upon his doctrine.

11:19
And when evening was come, he went forth out of the city.

11:20
And when they passed by in the morning, they saw the figtree withered from the roots.

11:21
And Peter remembering, said to him:
Rabbi, behold the figtree that thou didst curse, is withered.

11:22
And Jesus answering saith to them:
Have faith of God.

11:23
Amen I say to you, that whosoever shall say to this mountain, Be taken up and be cast into the sea, and shall not stagger in his heart, but believe that whatsoever he saith shall be done;
it shall be done unto him.

11:24
Therefore I say to you, all things,
whatsoever you ask, praying, believe that you shall receive,
and they shall come unto you.

11:25
And when you shall stand to pray,
forgive if you have ought against any man;
that also your Father which is in Heaven, may forgive you your sins.

11:26
If so be that you will not forgive, neither will your Father that is in Heaven, forgive you your sins.

11:27
And they come again to Jerusalem.
And when he walked in the temple, there come to him the chief Priests & the Scribes and the Ancients,

11:28
and they say to him:
In what power doest thou these things? and who hath given thee this power,
that thou shouldest do these things?


11:29
And Jesus answering said to them:
I also will ask you one word,
and answer you me,
and I will tell you in what power I do these things.

11:30
The baptism of John was it from Heaven,
or from men? Answer me.

11:31
But they thought with themselves, saying:
If we say, from Heaven; he will say, why then did you not believe him?

11:32
If we say,
from men,
we fear the people. For all accounted John that he was indeed a Prophet.

11:33
And they answering say to Jesus:
We know not.
And Jesus answering saith to them:
Neither do I tell you in what power I do these things.

