8:1
And the same day there was made a great persecution in the Church, which was at Jerusalem,
and all were dispersed through the countries of Jewry and Samaria, saving the Apostles.

8:2
And devout men took order for Steven's funeral,
and made great mourning upon him.

8:3
But Saul wasted the Church:
entering in from house to house, and drawing men and women, delivered them into prison.

8:4
They therefore that were dispersed, passed through, evangelizing the word.

8:5
And Philippe descending into the city of Samaria, preached Christ unto them.

8:6
and the multitudes were attent to those things which were said of Philippe, with one accord hearing, and seeing the signs that he did.

8:7
For many of them that had unclean spirits, crying with a loud voice, went out.
And many sick of the palsy and lame were cured.

8:8
There was made therefore great joy in that city.

8:9
And a certain man named Simon, who before had been in that city a Magician, seducing the nation of Samaria, saying himself to be some great one:

8:10
unto whom all harkened from the least to the greatest, saying:
This man is the power of God, that is called great.

8:11
And they were attent upon him, because a long time he had bewitched them with his magical practices.

8:12
But when they had believed Philippe evangelizing of the Kingdom of God, and of the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, men and women.

8:13
Then Simon also himself believed:
& being baptized, he cleaved to Philippe.
Seeing also signs and very great miracles to be done, he was astonished with admiration.

8:14
And when the Apostles who were in Jerusalem, had heard that Samaria had received the word of God: they sent unto them Peter and John.

8:15
Who when they were come, prayed for them, that they might receive the Holy Ghost.

8:16
For he was not yet come upon any of them,
but they were only baptized in the name of our Lord Jesus.

8:17
Then did they impose their hands upon them,
& they received the Holy Ghost.

8:18
And when Simon had seen that by the imposition of the hand of the Apostles, the Holy Ghost was given, he offered them money,

8:19
saying:
Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I impose my hands,
he may receive the Holy Ghost.

8:20
But Peter said to him: Thy money be with thee unto perdition: because thou hast thought that the gift of God is purchased with money.

8:21
Thou hast no part, nor lot in this word.
For thy heart is not right before God.

8:22
Do penance therefore from this thy wickedness:
and pray to God, if perhaps this cogitation of thy heart may be remitted thee.

8:23
For I see thou art in the gall of bitterness and the obligation of iniquity.

8:24
And Simon answering said:
Pray you for me to our Lord, that nothing come upon me of these things which you have said.

8:25
And they indeed having testified and spoken the word of our Lord, returned to Jerusalem,
and evangelized to many countries of the Samaritans.

8:26
And an Angel of our Lord spake to Philippe, saying:
Arise,
and go toward the South, to the way that goeth down from Jerusalem into Gaza:
this is desert.

8:27
And rising he went.
And behold, a man of Æthiopia, an Eunuch, of great authority under Candace the queen of the Æthiopians, who was over all her treasures, was come to Jerusalem to adore:

8:28
and he was returning and sitting upon his chariot, and reading Esay the Prophet.

8:29
And the Spirit said to Philippe:
Go near,
and join thyself to this same chariot.

8:30
And Philippe running thereunto, heard him reading Esay the Prophet,
and he said:
Trowest thou that thou understandest the things which thou readest?

8:31
Who said:
And how can I,
unless some man shew me? & he desired Philippe that he would come up and sit with him.


8:32
And the place of the scripture which he did read, was this:
As a sheep to slaughter was he led:
and as a lamb before his shearer, without voice, so did he not open his mouth.

8:33
In humility his judgement was taken away.
His generation who shall declare,
for from the earth shall his life be taken?

8:34
And the Eunuch answering Philip,
said:
I beseech thee, of whom doth the Prophet speak this? of himself, or of some other?

8:35
And, Philip opening his mouth, and beginning from this scripture, evangelized unto him Jesus.

8:36
And as they went by the way, they came to a certain water: and the Eunuch said: Lo water, who doth let me to be baptized? And Philip said:
If thou believe with all thy heart, thou mayest.
And he answering said:
I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.

8:38
And he commanded the chariot to stay:
and both went down into the water,
Philip and the Eunuch,
and he baptized him.

8:39
And when they were come up out of the water, the Spirit of our Lord took away Philip,
& the Eunuch saw him no more.
And he went on his way rejoicing.

8:40
But Philip was found in Azotus, and passing through,
he evangelized to all the cities,
till he came to Cæsarea.

