19:1
And it came to pass when Apollo was at Corinth, that Paul having gone through the higher parts came to Ephesus, and found certain Disciples:


19:2
and he said to them: Have you received the Holy Ghost, believing? But they said to him: Nay, neither have we heard whether there be a Holy Ghost.




19:3
But he said: In what then were you baptized? Who said, In John's Baptism.




19:4
And Paul said: John baptized the people with the Baptism of penance, saying, That they should believe in him that was to come after him, that is to say, in Jesus.




19:5
Hearing these things, they were baptized in the name of our Lord Jesus.

19:6
And when Paul had imposed hands on them, the Holy Ghost came upon them, & they spake with tongues, and prophesied.



19:7
And all the men were about twelve.

19:8
And entering into the Synagogue, he spake confidently for three months, disputing & exhorting of the Kingdom of God.

19:9
But when certain were indurate, and believed not, ill-speaking the way of our Lord before the multitude, departing from them, he separated the Disciples, daily disputing in the school of one Tyrannus.



19:10
And this was done for the space of two years, so that all which dwelt in Asia, heard the word of our Lord, Jews and Gentiles.


19:11
And God wrought by the hand of Paul miracles not common:




19:13
And certain also of the Judaical exorcists that went about, assayed to invocate upon them that had evil spirits, the name of our Lord Jesus, saying: I adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preacheth.


19:14
And there were certain sons of Sceva a Jew, chief Priest, seven, that did this.

19:15
But the wicked spirit answering, said to them: Jesus I know, and Paul I know: but you, what are ye?




19:16
And the man in whom the wicked spirit was, leaping upon them, and mastering both, prevailed against them, so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded.


19:17
And this was made notorious to all the Jews and the Gentiles that dwelt at Ephesus: and fear fell upon all them, and the name of our Lord Jesus was magnified.



19:18
And many of them that believed, came confessing & declaring their deeds.

19:19
And many of them that had followed curious things, brought together their books, and burnt them before all: and counting the prices of them, they found the money to be fifty thousand pence.



19:20
So mightily increased the word of God and was confirmed.


19:21
And when these things were ended, Paul purposed in the Spirit, when he had passed through Macedonia and Achaia, to go to Jerusalem, saying: After I shall have been there, I must see Rome also.


19:22
And sending into Macedonia two of them that ministered unto him, Timothee and Erastus, himself remained for a time in Asia.

19:23
And at that time there was made no little trouble about the way of our Lord.

19:24
For one named Demetrius, a silver-smith, that made silver temples of Diana, procured to the artificers no small gain:

19:25
whom calling together and them that were the same kind of workmen, he said: Sirs, you know that our gain is of this occupation;




19:26
and you see, and hear that this same Paul by persuasion hath averted a great multitude not only of Ephesus, but almost of all Asia, saying: That they are not gods which be made by hands.


19:27
And not only unto us is this part in danger to be reproved, but also the temple of great Diana shall be reputed for nothing, yea & her majesty shall begin to be destroyed, whom all Asia & the world worshippeth.



19:28
Hearing these things they were replenished with anger, and cried out saying: Great is Diana of the Ephesians.



19:29
And the whole city was filled with confusion, and they ran violently with one accord into the theater, catching Gaius & Aristarchus Macedonians, Paul's companions.


19:30
And when Paul would have entered in to the people, the Disciples did not permit him.

19:31
And certain also of the Princes of Asia that were his friends, sent unto him, desiring that he would not adventure himself into the theater:

19:32
and others cried another thing. For the assembly was confuse, & the more part knew not for what cause they were assembled.



19:33
And of the multitude they drew forth Alexander, the Jews thrusting him forward. But Alexander with his hand desiring silence, would have given the people satisfaction.


19:34
Whom as soon as they perceived to be a Jew, there was made one voice of all, almost for the space of two hours crying out: Great is Diana of the Ephesians.


19:35
And when the Scribe had appeased the multitudes, he saith: Ye men of Ephesus, for what man is there that knoweth not the city of the Ephesians to be a worshipper of great Diana, and Jupiter's child?


19:36
Forasmuch therefore as these things cannot be gainsaid, you must be quieted, and do nothing rashly.

19:37
For you have brought these men, being neither sacrilegious, nor blaspheming your goddess.

19:38
But if Demetrius & the artificers that are with him, have matter to say against any man, there are Courts kept in the common place, & there are Proconsuls; let them accuse one another.





19:39
And if you ask any other matter, it may be resolved in a lawful assembly.

19:40
For we are in danger also to be accused for this day's sedition: whereas there is no man guilty by whom we may give an account of this concourse. And when he had said these things, he dismissed the assembly.



