26:1
But Agrippa said to Paul: Thou art permitted to speak for thyself. Then Paul stretching forth his hand, began to make his answer:



26:2
Touching all things whereof I am accused of the Jews, king Agrippa, I account myself happy for that I am to defend myself this day before thee,

26:3
especially whereas thou knowest all things that are among the Jews, customs and questions: for the which cause I beseech thee, hear me patiently.

26:4
And my life truly from my youth, which was from the beginning in my nation in Jerusalem, all the Jews do know:



26:6
And now for the hope of the promise that was made of God to our fathers, do I stand subject to judgement:

26:7
the which, our twelve tribes serving night and day, hope to come unto. Of the which hope, o king, I am accused of the Jews.


26:8
What incredible thing is it judged with you, if God raise the dead?

26:10
Which also I did at Jerusalem, and many of the saints did I shut up in prisons, having received authority of the chief priests: and when they were put to death, I brought the sentence.

26:11
And throughout all the synagogues oftentimes punishing them, I compelled them to blaspheme: and yet more mad against them, I persecuted them even unto foreign cities.


26:12
Among which things whiles I went to Damascus with authority and permission of the chief priests,


26:14
And when all we were fallen down on the ground, I heard a voice speaking to me in the Hebrew tongue: Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? It is hard for thee to kick against the prick.



26:15
And I said: Who are thou Lord? And our Lord answered: I am Jesus whom thou doest persecute.




26:16
But rise up and stand upon thy feet: for to this end have I appeared to thee, that I may ordain thee a minister and witness of those things which thou hast seen, and of those things wherein I will appear to thee,








26:19
Whereupon, king Agrippa, I was not incredulous to the heavenly vision:

26:20
but to them first that are at Damascus, and at Jerusalem, and unto all the country of Jewry, and to the Gentiles did I preach that they should do penance, & turn to God, doing works worthy of penance.


26:21
For this cause the Jews, when I was in the temple, apprehending me, attempted meaning to kill me.

26:22
But aided by the help of God, I stand until this day, testifying to small & to great, saying nothing beside those things which the Prophets did speak should come to pass, & Moyses;

26:24
As he spake these things and made his answer, Festus with a loud voice said: Thou art mad, Paul; much learning turneth thee to madness.



26:25
And Paul said: I am not mad, most excellent Festus; but I speak words of verity & sobriety.





26:26
For the king knoweth of these things, to whom also I speak constantly. For I think none of these things to be unknown to him. For neither was any of these things done in a corner.

26:27
Believest thou the Prophets, king Agrippa? I know that thou believest.


26:28
And Agrippa said to Paul: A little thou persuadest me to become a Christian.


26:29
And Paul said: I wish of God, both in little, and in much, not only thee, but also all that hear this day, to become such as I am also, except these bands.

26:30
And the king rose up, and the President, and Bernice, and they that sat by them.


26:31
And going aside, they spake among themselves, saying, That this man hath done nothing worthy of death or bands.


26:32
And Agrippa said to Festus: This man might be released, if he had not appealed to Cæsar.



