25:1
Festus therefore when he was come into the province, after three days went up to Jerusalem from Cæsarea.

25:2
And the chief Priests, and principal men of the Jews went unto him against Paul: and they desired him,




25:4
But Festus answered, that Paul is kept in Cæsarea: and that he would very shortly go thither.


25:5
They therefore, saith he, that are of ability among you, going down with me, if there be any crime in the man, let them accuse him.



25:6
And having tarried among them not above eight or ten days, he went down to Cæsarea, and the next day he sat in the judgement seat: and he commanded Paul to be brought.



25:7
Who being brought, there stood about him the Jews that were come down from Jerusalem, objecting many and grievous causes which they could not prove;

25:9
But Festus willing to shew the Jews a pleasure, answering Paul, said: Wilt thou go up to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these things before me?

25:10
And Paul said: At Cæsar's judgement seat do I stand, where I ought to be judged: the Jews I have not hurt, as thou very well knowest.




25:11
For if I have hurt them, or done any thing worthy of death, I refuse not to die. But if none of those things be, whereof these accuse me, no man can give me to them. I appeal to Cæsar.





25:12
Then Festus having conferred with the Council, answered: Hast thou appealed to Cæsar? to Cæsar shalt thou go.



25:13
And when certain days were passed, king Agrippa & Bernice came down to Cæsarea to salute Festus.

25:14
And as they tarried there a good many days, Festus signified to the king, of Paul, saying: A certain person was left prisoner by Felix,


25:16
To whom I answered: That it is not the Romans' custom to yield up any man before that he which is accused have his accusers present, and take place to make his answer for to clear himself of the crimes.




25:17
When they therefore were assembled hither, without any delay, the day following, sitting in the judgement seat, I commanded the man to be brought.

25:18
Of whom, when the accusers stood up, they brought no cause which I thought ill of:

25:19
but certain questions of their own superstition they had against him, and of one Jesus deceased, whom Paul affirmed to live.


25:20
Doubting therefore of this kind of question, I said, whether he would go to Jerusalem, & there be judged of these things.

25:21
But Paul appealing to be kept unto the knowledge of Augustus, I commanded him to be kept, till I send him to Cæsar.


25:22
And Agrippa said to Festus: Myself also would hear the man. Tomorrow, said he, thou shalt hear him.





25:23
And the next day when Agrippa and Bernice were come with great pomp, and had entered into the hall of audience with the Tribunes and principal men of the city, at Festus' commandment Paul was brought.



25:24
And Festus saith: King Agrippa, and all ye men that are present together with us, you see this man, concerning whom all the multitude of the Jews called upon me at Jerusalem, requesting and crying out that he ought not to live any longer.




25:25
Yet have I found nothing that he hath committed worthy of death. But forasmuch as he himself appealed to Augustus, I have determined to send him.


25:26
Of whom what to write for certainty to my lord, I have not. For the which cause I have brought him forth to you, and especially to thee, king Agrippa, that examination being made, I may have what to write.



25:27
For it seemeth to me without reason, to send a prisoner, & not to signify his causes.

