28:1
And when we had escaped, then we knew that the island was called Mitilene.
But the Barbarous shewed us no small courtesy.

28:2
For, kindling a fire they refreshed us all, because of the imminent rain and the cold.

28:3
And when Paul had gathered together some number of sticks, and had laid them on the fire, a viper issuing out of the heat, invaded his hand.

28:4
But as the Barbarous saw the beast hanging on his hand, they said one to another:
Undoubtedly this man is a murderer, who being escaped out of the sea, vengeance doth not suffer him to live.

28:5
and he indeed shaking off the beast into the fire, suffered no harm.

28:6
But they supposed that he should be turned into a swelling, and that he would suddenly fall and die.
But expecting long and seeing that there was no harm done on him, being changed they said, that he was a God. And in those places were lands of the prince of the isle, named Publius, who receiving us, for three days entreated us courteously.

28:8
And it chanced that the father of Publius lay vexed with fevers and the bloody flux.
Unto whom Paul entered:
and when he had prayed, and imposed hands on him, he healed him.

28:9
Which being done, all in the isle also that had infirmities, came,
and were cured:

28:10
who also honoured us with many honours,
and when we were sailing away, laded us with necessaries.

28:11
And after three months, we sailed in a ship of Alexandria, that had wintered in the island, whose sign was the Castors.

28:12
And when we were come to Syracusa, we tarried there three days.

28:13
Thence compassing by the shore, we came to Rhegium:
and after one day the South-wind blowing, we came the second day to Puteoli,

28:14
where finding brethren, we were desired to tarry with them seven days:
and so we came to Rome.

28:15
And from thence, when the Brethren had heard, they came to meet us unto Apij-forum, and the Three-taverns,
whom when Paul had seen, giving thanks to God, he took courage.

28:16
And when we were come to Rome, Paul was permitted to remain to himself with a soldier that kept him.

28:17
And after the third day he called together the chief of the Jews.
And when they were assembled, he said to them:
Men brethren, I doing nothing against the people, or the custom of the fathers, was delivered prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans, who when they had examined me, would have released me, for that there was no cause of death in me.

28:19
But the Jews contradicting it, I was compelled to appeal unto Cæsar, not as having any thing to accuse my nation.

28:20
For this cause therefore I desired to see you and to speak to you.
For, because of the hope of Israel, am I compassed with this chain.

28:21
But they said to him:
We neither received letters concerning thee from Jewry,
neither did any of the brethren that came hither,
report or speak any evil of thee.

28:22
But we desire of thee to hear what thou thinkest:
for concerning this sect, it is known to us that it is gainsaid every-where.

28:23
And when they had appointed him a day, they came to him unto his lodging very many:
to whom he expounded, testifying the Kingdom of God, and using persuasion to them of Jesus, out of the Law of Moyses and the Prophets, from morning until evening.

28:24
And certain believed those things that were said: but certain believed not.
And whereas they did not agree among themselves, they departed, Paul saying one word: That well did the Holy Ghost speak by Esaie the Prophet to our fathers,

28:26
saying:
Go to this people, and say to them:
With the ear you shall hear, and shall not understand:
and seeing you shall see and shall not perceive.
For the heart of this people is waxen gross, and with their ears have they heavily heard, and their eyes they have shut:
lest perhaps they may see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and be converted, and I heal them.

28:28
Be it known therefore to you, that this Salvation of God is sent to the Gentiles, and they will hear.
And when he had said these things, the Jews went out from him, having much questioning among themselves.

28:30
And he tarried full two years in his hired lodging:
and he received all that came in to him, preaching the Kingdom of God, and teaching the things that concern our Lord Jesus Christ with all confidence, without prohibition.

