3:1
And Peter and John went up into the temple, at the ninth hour of prayer.

3:2
And a certain man that was lame from his mother's womb, was carried; whom they laid every day at the gate of the temple, that is called Specious, that he might ask alms of them that went into the temple.



3:3
He, when he had seen Peter and John about to enter into the temple, asked to receive an alms.

3:4
But Peter with John looking upon him, said: Look upon us.


3:5
But he looked earnestly upon them, hoping that he should receive something of them.

3:6
But Peter said: Silver and gold I have not, but that which I have, the same I give to thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth arise, and walk.





3:7
And taking his right hand, he lifted him up, and forthwith his feet & soles were made strong.


3:8
And springing he stood, & walked; & went in with them into the temple walking, and leaping, and praising God.



3:9
And all the people saw him walking and praising God.

3:10
And they knew him, that it was he which sat for alms at the Specious gate of the temple: and they were exceedingly astonished and aghast at that that had chanced to him.


3:11
And as he held Peter and John, all the people ran to them unto the porch which is called Salomon's, wondering.

3:12
But Peter seeing them, made answer to the people: Ye men of Israel, why marvel you at this, or why look you upon us, as though by our power or holiness we have made this man to walk?




3:13
The God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers hath glorified his Son Jesus, whom you indeed delivered & denied before the face of Pilate, he judging him to be released.

3:14
But you denied the Holy and the Just One, and asked a man-killer to be given unto you.


3:15
But the Author of life you killed, whom God hath raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses.


3:16
And in the faith of his name, this man whom you see and know, his name hath strengthened; & the faith which is by him, hath given this perfect health in the sight of all you.


3:17
And now (brethren) I know that you did it through ignorance, as also your princes.

3:18
But God who foreshewed by the mouth of all the Prophets that his Christ should suffer, hath so fulfilled it.



3:19
Be Penitent therefore & convert, that your sins may be put out.





3:22
Moyses indeed said: That a prophet shall the Lord your God raise up to you of your brethren, as myself: him you shall hear according to all things whatsoever he shall speak to you.



3:23
And it shall be, every soul that shall not hear that Prophet, shall be destroyed out of the people.


3:24
And all the Prophets from Samuel and afterward that have spoken, told of these days.

3:25
You are the children of the Prophets and of the Testament which God made to our fathers, saying to Abraham: And in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.


3:26
To you first God raising up his Son, hath sent him blessing you: that every one should convert himself from his naughtiness.


