6:1
And in those days the number of Disciples increasing, there arose a murmuring of the Greeks against the Hebrews, for that their widows were despised in the daily ministry.


6:2
And the Twelve calling together the multitude of the Disciples, said: it is not reason, that we leave the word of God, and serve tables.


6:3
Consider therefore brethren, seven men of you of good testimony, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business.

6:4
But we will be instant in prayer and the ministry of the word.

6:5
And the saying was liked before all the multitude. And they chose Steven a man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost, and Philippe, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolas a stranger of Antioch:


6:6
These they did set in the presence of the Apostles: and praying they imposed hands upon them.


6:7
And the word of God increased, and the number of the Disciples was multiplied in Jerusalem exceedingly: a great multitude also of the Priests obeyed the faith.



6:8
And Steven full of grace and fortitude did great wonders & signs among the people.

6:9
And there arose certain of that which is called the Synagogue of the Libertines, and of the Cyrenians, and of the Alexandrians, and of them that were of Cilicia and Asia, disputing with Steven:



6:10
and they could not resist the wisdom and the Spirit that spake.


6:11
Then they suborned men, to say they had heard him speak words of blasphemy against Moyses and God.

6:12
They therefore stirred up the people, and the Ancients, and the Scribes: and running together they took him, and brought him into the Council,




6:13
and they set false witnesses that said: This man ceaseth not to speak words against the holy place & the Law.

6:14
For we have heard him say, that this same Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place, and shall change the traditions, which Moyses delivered unto us.


6:15
And all that sat in the Council beholding him, saw his face as it were the face of an Angel.

