16:1
And he came to Derbe and Lystra.
And behold, there was a certain Disciple there named Timothee, the son of a widow woman that believed, of a father a Gentile.

16:2
To this man the brethren that were in Lystra and Iconium, gave a good testimony.

16:3
Him Paul would have to go forth with him:
and taking him he circumcised him because of the Jews that were in those places.
For they all knew that his father was a Gentile.

16:4
And when they passed through the cities, they delivered unto them to keep the decrees that were decreed of the Apostles and Ancients which were at Jerusalem.

16:5
And the Churches were confirmed in faith,
and did abound in number daily.

16:6
And passing through Phrygia and the country of Galatia, they were forbidden by the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia.

16:7
And when they were come into Mysia, they attempted to go into Bithynia,
and the Spirit of Jesus permitted them not.

16:8
And when they had passed through Mysia, they went down to Troas:

16:9
and a vision by night was shewed to Paul.
There was a certain man of Macedonia standing and beseeching him, and saying:
Pass into Macedonia, and help us.

16:10
And as soon as he had seen the vision, forthwith we sought to go into Macedonia, being assured that God had called us to evangelize to them.

16:11
And sailing from Troas, we came with a straight course to Samothracia, and the day following to Neapolis:

16:12
and from thence to Philippi, which is the first city of the part of Macedonia, a colonia.
And we were in this city certain days, abiding.

16:13
And upon the day of the Sabboths, we went forth without the gate beside a river, where it seemed that there was prayer:
& sitting we spake to the women that were assembled.

16:14
And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple of the city of the Thyatirians, one that worshipped God, did hear:
whose heart our Lord opened to attend to those things which were said of Paul.

16:15
And when she was baptized, & her house,
she besought us, saying: If you have judged me to be faithful to our Lord,
enter into my house & tarry.
And she constrained us.

16:16
And it came to pass as we went to prayer, a certain wench having a Pythonical spirit, met us, that brought great gain to her masters by divining.

16:17
This same following Paul & us, cried saying:
These men are the servants of the high God, which preach unto you the way of salvation.

16:18
And this she did many days.
And Paul being sorry, and turning, said to the spirit:
I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to go out from her.
And he went out the same hour.

16:19
But her masters seeing that the hope of their gain was gone, apprehending Paul and Silas, brought them into the market place to the Princes:

16:20
and presenting them to the magistrates, they said:
These men trouble our city, being Jews:

16:21
and they preach a fashion which it is not lawful for us to receive, nor do, being Romans.

16:22
And the people ran against them:
and the magistrates tearing their coats, commanded them to be beaten with rods.

16:23
And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they did cast them into prison, commanding the keeper that he should keep them diligently.

16:24
Who when he had received such commandment, cast them into the inner prison,
and made their feet fast in the stocks.

16:25
And at mid-night Paul and Silas praying, did praise God.
And they that were in prison, heard them.

16:26
But suddenly there was made a great earthquake,
so that the foundations of the prison were shaken.
And forthwith all the doors were opened:
and the bands of all were loosed.

16:27
And the keeper of the prison waked out of his sleep, and seeing the doors of the prison opened, drawing out his sword, would have killed himself, supposing that the prisoners had been fled.

16:28
But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying:
Do thyself no harm,
for we are all here.

16:29
And calling for light,
he went in, and trembling fell down to Paul and Silas at their feet:

16:30
and bringing them forth,
he said: Masters,
what must I do that I may be saved?

16:31
But they said:
Believe in our Lord Jesus;
and thou shalt be saved and thy house.

16:32
And they preached the word of our Lord to him with all that were in his house.

16:33
And he taking them in the same hour of the night, washed their wounds:
and himself was baptized and all his house incontinent.

16:34
And when he had brought them into his own house, he laid the table for them,
and rejoiced with all his house, believing God.

16:35
And when day was come, the magistrates sent the sergeants, saying:
Let those men go.

16:36
And the keeper of the prison told these words to Paul, That the magistrates have sent that you should be let go.
Now therefore departing,
go ye in peace.

16:37
But Paul said to them:
Being whipped openly, uncondemned,
men that are Romans, they have cast us into prison:
& now do they send us out secretly? Not so,
but let them come,
& let us out themselves.

16:38
And the sergeants reported these words to the magistrates.
And they were afraid hearing that they were Romans:

16:39
and coming they besought them,
& bringing them forth they desired them to depart out of the city.

16:40
And going out of the prison, they entered in unto Lydia:
and having seen the brethren, they comforted them,
and departed.

