5:1
But a certain man named Ananias, with Saphira his wife sold a piece of land,


5:2
and defrauded of the price of the land, his wife being privy thereto: and bringing a certain portion, laid it at the feet of the Apostles.

5:3
And Peter said: Ananias, why hath Satan tempted thy heart, that thou shouldest lie to the Holy Ghost, and defraud of the price of the land?


5:4
Remaining, did it not remain to thee: and being sold, was it not in thy power? Why hast thou put this thing in thy heart? Thou hast not lied to men, but to God.




5:5
And Ananias hearing these words, fell down, and gave up the ghost. And there came great fear upon all that heard it.



5:6
And young men rising up, removed him, & bearing him forth buried him.


5:7
And it was the space as it were of three hours, and his wife, not knowing what was chanced, came in.


5:8
And Peter answered her: Tell me woman, whether did you sell the land for so much? But she said: Yea, for so much.




5:9
And Peter unto her: Why have you agreed together to tempt the Spirit of our Lord? Behold, their feet that have buried thy husband, at the door, and they shall bear thee forth.




5:10
Forthwith she fell before his feet, and gave up the ghost. And the young men going in, found her dead: and carried her forth, & buried her by her husband.





5:11
And there fell great fear in the whole Church, and upon all that heard these things.


5:12
And by the hands of the Apostles were many signs and wonders done among the people. And they were all with one accord in Salomon's porch.


5:13
But of the rest none durst join themselves unto them: but the people magnified them.


5:14
And the multitude of men and women that believed in our Lord, was more increased:




5:16
And there ran together unto Jerusalem the multitude also of the cities adjoining, bringing sick persons and such as were vexed of unclean spirits; who were all cured.


5:17
And the high Priest rising up, and all that were with him, which is the heresy of the Sadducees, were replenished with zeal:



5:18
laid hands upon the Apostles, and put them in the common prison.



5:19
But an Angel of our Lord by night opening the gates of the prison, & leading them forth, said:

5:20
Go; and standing speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life.


5:21
Who having heard this, early in the morning entered into the temple, and taught. And the high priest coming, and they that were with him, called together the Council & all the ancients of the children of Israel: and they sent to the prison that they might be brought.







5:22
But when the ministers were come, and opening the prison, found them not; returning they told, saying:



5:23
The prison truly we found shut with all diligence, and the keepers standing before the gates: but opening it, we found no man within.


5:24
And as soon as the Magistrates of the temple and the chief Priests heard these words, they were in doubt of them, what would befall.

5:25
And there came a certain man and told them: That the men, lo, which you did put in prison, are in the temple standing, and teaching the people.


5:26
Then went the Magistrate with the ministers, & brought them without force, for they feared the people, lest they should be stoned.



5:27
And when they had brought them, they set them in the Council. And the high Priest asked them,


5:28
saying: Commanding we commanded you that you should not teach in this name: and behold you have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and you will bring upon us the blood of this man.




5:29
But Peter answering and the Apostles, said: God must be obeyed, rather than men.


5:30
The God of our Fathers hath raised up Jesus, whom you did kill, hanging him upon a tree.

5:31
This Prince and Saviour God hath exalted with his right hand, to give repentance to Israel, and remission of sins.

5:32
And we are witnesses of these words, and the Holy Ghost, whom God hath given to all that obey him.


5:33
When they had heard these things, it cut them to the heart, and they consulted to kill them.


5:34
But one in the Council rising up, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a Doctor of law honourable to all the people, commanded the men to be put forth a while.



5:35
and he said to them: Ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves touching these men what you mean to do.

5:36
For before these days there rose Theodas, saying he was somebody, to whom consented a number of men about four hundred, who was slain: and all that believed him, were dispersed, and brought to nothing.




5:37
After this fellow there rose Judas of Galilee in the days of the Enrolling, and drew away the people after him, and he perished: and as many as ever consented to him, were dispersed.




5:38
And now therefore I say to you, depart from these men and let them alone: for if this counsel or work be of men, it will be dissolved:




5:39
but if it be of God, you are not able to dissolve them, lest perhaps you be found to resist God also. And they consented to him.



5:40
And calling in the Apostles, after they had scourged them, they charged them that they should not speak in the name of Jesus, and dismissed them.


5:41
And they went from the sight of the Council rejoicing, because they were accounted worthy to suffer reproach for the name of Jesus.

5:42
And every day they ceased not in the temple, and from house to house to teach and evangelize Christ Jesus.

