13:1
And there were in the Church which was at Antioch, Prophets and Doctors, among whom was Barnabas, and Simon that was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manahen who was the foster-brother of Herod the Tetrarch, and Saul.





13:2
And as they were ministering to our Lord, & fasting, the Holy Ghost said: Separate me Saul and Barnabas unto the work, whereto I have taken them.


13:3
Then they fasting and praying, and imposing hands upon them, dismissed them.

13:4
And they being sent of the Holy Ghost, went to Seleucia, and thence sailed to Cypres.


13:5
And when they were come to Salamina, they preached the word of God in the Synagogues of the Jews. And they had John also in their ministry.


13:6
And when they had walked throughout the whole island as far as Paphos, they found a certain man that was a magician, a false-prophet, a Jew, whose name was Bar-iesu,

13:7
who was with the Proconsul Sergius Paulus a wise man. He sending for Barnabas & Saul, desired to hear the word of God.

13:8
But Elymas the magician (for so is his name interpreted) resisted them, seeking to avert the Proconsul from the faith.



13:9
But Saul, otherwise Paul, replenished with the Holy Ghost, looking upon him,

13:10
said: O full of all guile, and all deceit, son of the devil, enemy of all justice, thou ceasest not to subvert the right ways of our Lord.

13:11
And now behold the hand of our Lord upon thee, & thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sun until a time. And forthwith there fell dimness and darkness upon him, and going about he sought somebody that would give him his hand.




13:12
Then the Proconsul, when he had seen that which was done, believed, marveling at the doctrine of our Lord.

13:13
And when Paul and they that were with him had sailed from Paphos, they came to Perge in Pamphylia. And John departing from them, returned to Jerusalem.


13:14
But they passing through Perge, came to Antioch in Pisidia: and entering into the Synagogue on the day of the Sabboth, they sat down.


13:15
And after the lesson of the Law and the Prophets, the princes of the Synagogue sent to them, saying: Men brethren, if there be among you any sermon of exhortation to the people, speak.


13:16
And Paul rising up, and with his hand beckoning for silence, said: Ye men of Israel, and you that fear God, harken.




13:17
The God of the people of Israel chose our fathers, and exalted the people when they were sojourners in the land of Ægypt, and in a mighty arm brought them out thereof,




13:19
And destroying seven nations in the land of Chanaan, by lot he divided their land among them,

13:20
as it were after four hundred and fifty years, and after these things he gave Judges, until Samuel the Prophet.

13:21
And thenceforth they desired a king: & he gave them Saul the son of Cis, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, forty years.


13:22
and removing him, he raised them up David to be king: to whom giving testimony, he said: I have found David the son of Jesse, a man according to my heart, who shall do all my wills.



13:23
Of his seed God according to his promise hath brought forth to Israel a Saviour Jesus,

13:25
And when John fulfilled his course, he said: Whom do you think me to be? I am not he: but behold there cometh after me, whose shoes of his feet I am not worthy to loose.



13:26
Men brethren, children of the stock of Abraham, & they among you that fear God; to you the word of this salvation was sent.



13:27
For they that inhabited Jerusalem, and the princes thereof, not knowing him, nor the voices of the prophets that are read every Sabboth, judging have fulfilled them,




13:29
And when they had consummated all things that were written of him, taking him down from the tree, they put him in a monument.

13:30
But God raised him up from the dead the third day:


13:31
who was seen for many days of them that came up together with him from Galilee into Jerusalem, who until this present are his witnesses to the people.

13:32
And we preach unto you that promise which was made to our fathers:

13:33
that God hath fulfilled this same to our children, raising up Jesus, as in the second Psalm also it is written: My Son art thou, this day have I begotten thee.



13:34
And that he raised him up from the dead, not to return now any more into corruption, thus he said: That I will give you the holy things of David faithful.


13:35
And therefore in another place also he saith: Thou shalt not give thy holy one to see corruption.


13:36
For David in his generation when he had served, according to the will of God slept: and he was laid to his fathers & saw corruption.



13:37
But he whom God hath raised up, saw no corruption.

13:38
Be it known therefore to you, men brethren, that through him, forgiveness of sins is preached to you, from all the things from the which you could not be justified by the law of Moyses.


13:40
Take heed therefore lest that come upon you which is spoken in the prophets,

13:41
See ye contemners, and wonder, and perish: because I work a work in your days, a work which you will not believe, if any man shall tell it you.





13:42
And they going forth, they desired them that the Sabboth following they would speak unto them these words.

13:43
And when the Synagogue was dismissed, many of the Jews, and of the strangers serving God, followed Paul & Barnabas: who speaking exhorted them to continue in the grace of God.


13:44
But the next Sabboth the whole city almost assembled to hear the word of God.

13:45
And the Jews seeing the multitudes, were replenished with envy, & contradicted those things which were said of Paul, blaspheming.


13:46
Then Paul and Barnabas constantly said: To you it behoved us first to speak the word of God: but because you repel it, and judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life; behold we turn to the Gentiles.





13:47
For so our Lord commanded us: I have put thee to be the light of the Gentiles; that thou mayest be salvation unto the utmost of the earth.


13:48
And the Gentiles hearing it, were glad, and glorified the word of our Lord: and there believed as many as were preordinate to life everlasting.



13:49
And the word of our Lord was spread throughout the whole country.

13:50
But the Jews stirred up religious and honest women, and the chief of the city, and raised persecution against Paul and Barnabas: and they did cast them forth out of their coasts.



13:51
But they shaking off the dust of their feet against them, came to Iconium.

13:52
The Disciples also were replenished with joy and with the Holy Ghost.

