4:1
And when they were speaking to the people, the Priests and Magistrates of the temple & the Sadducees came upon them,



4:3
and they laid hands upon them, and put them into ward, until the morrow, for it was now evening.



4:4
And many of them that had heard the word, believed: and the number of the men was made five thousand.


4:5
And it came to pass on the morrow, that their princes, and Ancients, and Scribes were gathered into Jerusalem.


4:7
And setting them in the midst, they asked: In what power or in what name have you done this?


4:8
Then Peter replenished with the Holy Ghost, said to them: Ye princes of the people and Ancients:


4:11
This is the stone that was rejected of you the builders: which is made into the head of the corner:

4:12
and there is not salvation in any other. For neither is there any other name under Heaven given to men, wherein we must be saved.


4:13
And seeing Peter's constancy and John's, understanding that they were men unlettered, and of the vulgar sort, they marveled; and they knew them that they had been with Jesus:


4:14
seeing the man also that had been cured, standing with them, they could say nothing to the contrary,

4:15
But they commanded them to go aside forth out of the council: and they conferred together,


4:16
saying: What shall we do to these men? for a notorious sign indeed hath been done by them, to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem: it is manifest, and we cannot deny it.



4:17
But that it be no further spread abroad among the people, let us threaten them, that they speak no more in this name to any man.

4:18
And calling them, they charged them that they should not speak at all, nor teach in the name of Jesus.

4:19
But Peter and John answering, said to them: If it be just in the sight of God, to hear you rather than God, judge ye.


4:20
For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard.

4:21
But they threatening, dismissed them: not finding how they might punish them, for the people, because all glorified that which had been done, in that which was chanced.


4:22
For the man was more than forty years old in whom that sign of health had been wrought.

4:23
And being dismissed they came to theirs, and shewed all that the chief priests and Ancients had said to them.


4:24
Who having heard it, with one accord lifted up their voice to God, and said: Lord, thou that didst make Heaven & earth, the sea, and all things that are in them,




4:25
who in the Holy Ghost by the mouth of our Father David thy servant hast said: Why did the Gentiles rage, and the people meditate vain things:


4:26
the kings of the earth stand up, and the Princes assemble together against our Lord, and against his Christ?


4:27
For there assembled indeed in this city against the holy child Jesus whom thou hast anointed, Herod, and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel;

4:29
And now Lord look upon their threatenings, and give unto thy servants with all confidence to speak thy word,


4:31
And when they had prayed, the place was moved wherein they were gathered: and they were all replenished with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with confidence.



4:32
And the multitude of believers had one heart and one soul: neither did any one say that ought was his own of those things which he possessed, but all things were common unto them.



4:33
And with great power did the Apostles give testimony of the resurrection of Jesus Christ our Lord: and great grace was in all them.


4:34
For neither was there any one needy among them. For as many as were owners of lands or houses, sold and brought the prices of those things which they sold,



4:35
and laid it before the feet of the Apostles. And to every one was divided according as every one had need.

4:36
And Joseph who was surnamed of the Apostles Barnabas (which is by interpretation, the son of consolation) a Levite, a Cyprian born,





