23:1
And Paul looking upon the Council, said: Men brethren, I with all good conscience have conversed before God, until this present day.


23:2
And the high Priest Ananias commanded them that stood by him, to smite him on the mouth.

23:3
Then Paul said to him: God shall strike thee, thou whited wall. And thou sitting judgest me according to the law, and contrary to law doest thou command me to be smitten?




23:4
And they that stood by, said: Doest thou revile the high Priest of God?


23:5
And Paul said: I knew not, brethren, that he is the high Priest. For it is written: The prince of thy people thou shalt not misspeak.




23:6
And Paul knowing that the one part was of Sadducees, and the other of Pharisees, he cried out in the Council: Men brethren, I am a Pharisee, the son of Pharisees: of the hope and resurrection of the dead am I judged.




23:7
And when he had said these things, there rose dissension between the Pharisees and Sadducees; and the multitude was divided.


23:8
For the Sadducees say there is no resurrection, nor Angel, nor spirit: but the Pharisees confess both.


23:9
And there was made a great cry. And certain of the Pharisees rising up, strove saying: We find no evil in this man. What if a spirit hath spoken to him, or an Angel?



23:10
And when there was risen great dissension, the Tribune fearing lest Paul should be torn in pieces by them, commanded the soldiers to go down, and to take him out of the midst of them, and to bring him into the castle.

23:11
And the night following our Lord standing by him, said: Be constant; for as thou hast testified of me in Jerusalem, so must thou testify at Rome also.



23:12
And when day was come, certain of the Jews gathered themselves together, & vowed themselves, saying: that they would neither eat nor drink till they killed Paul.



23:13
And they were more than forty men that had made this conspiracy:

23:14
who came to the chief priests and the ancients, and said: By execration we have vowed ourselves, that we will eat nothing, till we kill Paul.




23:15
Now therefore give you knowledge to the Tribune with the Council, that he bring him forth to you, as if you meant to know some more certainty touching him. But we, before he come near, are ready for to kill him.




23:16
Which when Paul's sister's son had heard, of their lying in wait, he came and entered into the castle and told Paul.




23:17
And Paul calling to him one of the Centurions, said: Bring this young man to the Tribune, for he hath something to tell him.



23:18
And he taking him, brought him to the Tribune, and said: The prisoner Paul desired me to bring this young man unto thee, having something to say to thee.



23:19
And the Tribune taking him by the hand, went aside with him apart, and asked him: What is it that thou hast to tell me?



23:20
And he said: The Jews have agreed to desire thee, that tomorrow thou wilt bring forth Paul into the Council, as though they meant to inquire some more certainty touching him.



23:21
But do not thou credit them; for there lie in wait for him more than forty men of them, which have vowed neither to eat nor to drink, till they kill him: and they are now ready, expecting thy promise.




23:22
The Tribune therefore dismissed the young man, commanding that he should speak to no man that he had notified these things unto him.

23:23
And calling two Centurions, he said to them: Make ready two hundred soldiers, to go as far as Cæsarea, and seventy horsemen, and lances two hundred, from the third hour of the night:







23:26
writing a letter containing this much: Claudius Lysias to the most excellent President Felix, greeting.


23:27
This man being apprehended of the Jews, and ready to be killed of them, I coming in with the band delivered him, understanding that he is a Roman:

23:28
and meaning to know the cause that they objected unto him, I brought him down into their Council.

23:29
Whom I found to be accused concerning questions of their law: but having no crime worthy of death or of bands.

23:30
And when it was told me of ambushments that they had prepared against him, I sent him to thee, signifying also to the accusers, to speak before thee. Fare-well.

23:31
And the soldiers according as it was commanded them, taking Paul, brought him by night to Antipatris.

23:32
And the next day sending away the horse-men to go with him, they returned to the castle.



23:33
Who when they were come to Cæsarea, and had delivered the letter to the President, they did set Paul also before him.

23:34
And when he had read, and had asked of what province he was: and understanding that of Cilicia:






