11:1
And the Apostles and brethren that were in Jewry, heard that the Gentiles also received the word of God.

11:2
And when Peter was come up to Jerusalem, they that were of the Circumcision reasoned against him, saying:

11:3
Why didst thou enter in to men uncircumcised,
and didst eat with them?

11:4
But Peter began and declared to them the order, saying:

11:5
I was in the city of Joppe praying,
& I saw in an excess of mind a vision, a certain vessel descending as it were a great sheet with four corners let down from heaven,
& it came even unto me.

11:6
Into which I looking considered,
& saw four footed beasts of the earth, & cattle, & such as creep, & fowls of the air.

11:7
And I heard also a voice saying to me:
Arise Peter,
kill and eat.

11:8
And I said:
Not so Lord; for common or unclean thing never entered into my mouth.

11:9
And a voice answered the second time from heaven:
That which God hath made clean, do not thou call common.

11:10
And this was done thrice:
and all were taken up again into heaven.

11:11
And behold, three men immediately were come to the house wherein I was, sent to me from Cæsarea.

11:12
And the spirit said to me, that I should go with them, doubting nothing.
And there came with me these six brethren also:
and we went into the man's house.

11:13
And he told us, how he had seen an Angel in his house, standing and saying to him:
Send to Joppe,
and call hither Simon, that is surnamed Peter, who shall speak to thee words wherein thou shalt be saved and all thy house.

11:15
And when I had begun to speak, the Holy Ghost fell upon them, as upon us also in the beginning.

11:16
And I remembered the word of our Lord, according as he said:
John indeed baptized with water,
but you shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost.

11:17
If therefore God hath given them the same grace, as to us also that believed in our Lord Jesus Christ: who was I that might prohibit God?

11:18
Having heard these things, they held their peace:
& glorified God, saying:
God then to the Gentiles also hath given repentance unto life.

11:19
And they truly that had been dispersed by the tribulation that was made under Steven, walked throughout unto Phoenice & Cypres & Antioch, speaking the word to none, but to the Jews only.

11:20
But certain of them were men of Cypres and Cyrene, who when they were entered into Antioch, spake to the Greeks, preaching our Lord Jesus.

11:21
And the hand of our Lord was with them:
and a great number of believers was converted to our Lord.

11:22
And the report came to the ears of the Church that was at Jerusalem, touching these things:
and they sent Barnabas as far as Antioch.

11:23
Who when he was come, and saw the grace of God, rejoiced:
and he exhorted all with purpose of heart to continue in our Lord:

11:24
because he was a good man, and full of the Holy Ghost and faith. And a great multitude was added to our Lord.

11:25
And he went forth to Tarsus,
to seek Saul:


11:26
whom when he had found, he brought him to Antioch.
And they conversed there in the church a whole year:
and they taught a great multitude, so that the Disciples were at Antioch first named Christians.

11:27
And in these days there came Prophets from Jerusalem to Antioch,

11:28
and one of them rising, named Agabus, did by the Spirit signify a great famine that should be in the whole world, which fell under Claudius.

11:29
And the Disciples according as each man had, purposed every one to send, for to serve the brethren that dwelt in Jewry:

11:30
which also they did, sending to the ancients by the hands of Barnabas and Saul.

