14:1
And it came to pass at Iconium that they entered together into the Synagogue of the Jews, and so spake, that a very great multitude of Jews and of the Greeks did believe.


14:2
But the Jews that were incredulous, stirred up and incensed the hearts of the Gentiles to anger against the brethren.


14:3
Along time therefore they abode, dealing confidently in our Lord, who gave testimony to the word of his grace, granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands.

14:4
And the multitude of the city was divided: and certain of them indeed were with the Jews, but certain with the Apostles.



14:5
And when the Gentiles and the Jews with their princes had made an assault, to use them contumeliously, and to stone them,





14:7
And a certain man at Lystra impotent of his feet sat there, lame from his mother's womb, that never had walked.

14:8
This same heard Paul speaking. Who looking upon him, and seeing that he had faith for to be saved,




14:9
he said with a loud voice: Stand up right on thy feet. And he leaped & walked.



14:10
And the multitudes when they had seen what Paul had done, lifted up their voice in the Lycaonian tongue, saying: Gods made like to men, are descended to us.


14:11
And they called Barnabas, Jupiter: but Paul Mercury, because he was the chief speaker.



14:12
The Priest also of Jupiter that was before the city, bringing oxen and garlands before the gates, would with the people sacrifice.

14:13
Which thing when the Apostles Barnabas and Paul heard, renting their coats, they leaped forth into the multitudes, crying

14:14
and saying: Ye men, why do you these things? We also are mortal men like unto you, preaching to you for to convert from these vain things, to the living God that made the Heaven, and the earth, and the sea, and all things that are in them:


14:15
who in the Generations past suffered all the Gentiles to go their own ways.

14:16
Howbeit he left not himself without testimony, being beneficial from Heaven, giving rains, and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness.

14:17
And speaking these things, they scarce appeased the multitudes from sacrificing to them.


14:18
But there came in certain Jews from Antioch and Iconium: and persuading the multitudes, and stoning Paul, they drew him out of the city, thinking him to be dead.


14:19
But the Disciples compassing him round about, he rising up, entered into the city, and the next day he went forth with Barnabas unto Derbe.


14:20
And when they had evangelized to that city, & had taught many, they returned to Lystra and Iconium, and to Antioch:

14:21
confirming the hearts of the Disciples, and exhorting them to continue in the faith; and that by many tribulations we must enter into the Kingdom of God.

14:22
And when they had ordained to them Priests in every Church, and had prayed with fastings, they commended them to our Lord in whom they believed.

14:23
And passing through Pisidia, they came into Pamphylia,


14:25
and from thence they sailed to Antioch, whence they had been delivered to the grace of God unto the work which they accomplished.

14:26
And when they were come, and had assembled the Church, they reported what great things God had done with them, & that he had opened a door of faith to the Gentiles.

14:27
And they abode no little time with the Disciples.

