18:1
After these things, departing from Athens, he came to Corinth.

18:2
and finding a certain Jew, named Aquila, born in Pontus,
who of late was come out of Italy,
& Priscilla his wife (because Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome,) he came to them.

18:3
And because he was of the same craft, he remained with them, and wrought,
(and they were tent-makers by their craft.) And he disputed in the synagogue every Sabboth,
interposing the name of our Lord Jesus, and he exhorted the Jews and the Greeks.

18:5
And when Silas and Timothee were come from Macedonia, Paul was instant in preaching, testifying to the Jews that Jesus is Christ.

18:6
But they contradicting and blaspheming, he shaking his garments, said to them:
Your blood upon your own head:
I being clean,
from henceforth will go to the Gentiles.

18:7
And departing thence, he entered into the house of a certain man, named Titus Justus, one that served God, whose house was adjoining to the synagogue.

18:8
And Crispus the prince of the Synagogue believed our Lord, with all his house:
& many of the Corinthians hearing believed,
and were baptized.

18:9
And our Lord said in the night by a vision to Paul:
Do not fear,
but speak,
and hold not thy peace,
for-because I am with thee:
and no man shall set upon thee to hurt thee:
for I have much people in this city.

18:11
And he sat there a year & six months, teaching among them the word of God.

18:12
But Gallio being Proconsul of Achaia, the Jews with one accord rose up against Paul,
and brought him to the judgement seat,

18:13
saying: That this man contrary to the Law persuadeth men to worship God.

18:14
And Paul beginning to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews:
If it were some unjust thing, or an heinous fact, O you men Jews, I should by reason bear you.

18:15
But if they be questions of word and names, and of your law, yourselves look unto it:
I will not be judge of these things.

18:16
And he drove them from the judgement seat.

18:17
And all apprehending Sosthenes the prince of the Synagogue, strook him before the judgement seat:
and Gallio cared for none of those things.

18:18
But Paul when he had stayed yet many days, taking his leave of the brethren, sailed to Syria, (and with him Priscilla and Aquila,) who had shorn his head in Cenchris.
For he had a vow.

18:19
And he came unto Ephesus,
and them he left there.
But himself entering into the Synagogue,
disputed with the Jews.

18:20
And when they desired him, that he would tarry a longer time, he consented not,
but taking his leave,
and saying: I will return to you again God willing,
he departed from Ephesus.

18:22
And going down to Cæsarea, he went up,
and saluted the Church,
and came down to Antioch.

18:23
And having tarried there a certain time, he departed, walking in order through the country of Galatia and Phrygia, confirming all the Disciples.

18:24
And a certain Jew, named Apollo, born at Alexandria, an eloquent man, came to Ephesus, mighty in the Scriptures.

18:25
This man was taught the way of our Lord:
and being fervent in spirit he spake,
& taught diligently those things that pertain to Jesus, knowing only the Baptism of John.

18:26
This man therefore began to deal confidently in the Synagogue.
Whom when Priscilla and Aquila had heard, they took him unto them,
and expounded to him the way of our Lord more diligently.

18:27
And whereas he was desirous to go to Achaia, the brethren exhorting wrote to the Disciples to receive him.
Who, when he was come, profited them much that had believed.

18:28
For he with vehemency convinced the Jews openly, shewing by the scriptures, that Jesus is Christ.

