17:1
And when they had walked through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a Synagogue of the Jews.

17:2
And Paul according to his custom entered in unto them, & three Sabboths he discoursed to them out of the Scriptures,


17:3
declaring and insinuating that it behoved Christ to suffer and to rise again from the dead: & that this is Jesus Christ, whom I preach to you.

17:4
And certain of them believed, and were joined to Paul and Silas, and of the Gentiles that served God a great multitude, and noble women not a few.



17:5
But the Jews envying, & taking unto them of the rascal sort certain naughty men, and making a tumult, stirred the city: and besetting Jason's house, sought to bring them forth unto the people.


17:6
And not finding them, they drew Jason and certain brethren to the princes of the city, crying, That these are they that stir up the world, and are come hither,


17:7
whom Jason hath received, and all these do against the decrees of Cæsar, saying that there is another King, Jesus.

17:8
And they moved the people, and the princes of the city hearing these things.

17:9
And taking a satisfaction of Jason and of the rest, they dismissed them.

17:10
But the brethren forthwith by night sent away Paul and Silas unto Beroea. Who when they were come, entered into the Synagogue of the Jews.


17:11
(And these were more noble than they that are at Thessalonica, who received the word with all greediness, daily searching the scriptures, if these things were so.

17:12
And many surely of them believed, and of honest women Gentiles, and men not a few.)

17:13
And when the Jews in Thessalonica understood, that at Beroea also the word of God was preached by Paul, they came thither also, moving and troubling the multitude.

17:14
And then immediately the brethren sent away Paul, to go unto the sea: but Silas and Timothee remained there.



17:15
And they that conducted Paul, brought him as far as Athens, and receiving commandment of him to Silas and Timothee, that they should come to him very speedily, they departed.


17:16
And when Paul expected them at Athens, his spirit was incensed within him, seeing the city given to idolatry.

17:17
He disputed therefore in the Synagogue with the Jews, & them that served God, and in the market-place, every day with them that were there.


17:18
And certain Philosophers of the Epicures and the Stoics disputed with him, and certain said, what is it that this word-sower would say? But others: He seemeth to be a preacher of new gods: because he preached to them Jesus and the resurrection.






17:19
And apprehending him, they led him to Areopagus, saying: May we know what this new doctrine is that thou speakest of?


17:20
for thou bringest in certain new things to our ears. We will know therefore what these things may mean.


17:21
(And all the Athenians, and the strangers sojourning there, employed themselves to nothing else but either to speak, or to hear some news.)

17:22
But Paul standing in the midst of Areopagus, said: Ye men of Athens, in all things I perceive you as it were superstitious.


17:23
For passing by and seeing your idols, I found an altar also where upon was written: To the unknown God. That therefore which you worship, not knowing it, the same do I preach to you.



17:24
The God that made the world and all things that are in it, he being Lord of Heaven & earth dwelleth not in temples made with hand,





17:26
and he made of one, all mankind, to inhabit upon the whole face of the earth, assigning set times, and the limits of their habitation,



17:28
For in him we live and move and be, as certain also of your own poets said, For of his kind also we are.




17:29
Being therefore of God's kind, we may not suppose, the Divinity to be like unto gold or silver, or stone, the graving of art and device of man.

17:30
And the times truly of this ignorance whereas God despised, now he denounceth unto men that all every-where do penance,


17:32
And when they had heard the resurrection of the dead, certain indeed mocked, but certain said: We will hear thee again concerning this point.



17:33
So Paul went forth out of the midst of them.

17:34
But certain men joining unto him, did believe: among whom was also Dionysius Areopagita, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.


