10:1
And there was a certain man in Cæsarea, named Cornelius, Centurion of that which is called the Italian band,

10:3
he saw in a vision manifestly, about the ninth hour of the day, an Angel of God coming in unto him and saying to him: Cornelius.


10:4
But he beholding him, taken with fear, said: Who art thou Lord? And he said to him: Thy prayers and thy alms-deeds are ascended into remembrance in the sight of God.




10:5
And now send men unto Joppe, and call hither one Simon that is surnamed Peter.


10:6
He lodgeth with one Simon a tanner, whose house is by the sea side. He will tell thee what thou must do.

10:7
And when the Angel was departed that spake to him, he called two of his household, and a soldier that feared our Lord, of them that were under him.


10:8
To whom when he had told all, he sent them unto Joppe.

10:9
And the next day whiles they were going on their journey, and drawing nigh to the city, Peter went up into the higher parts, to pray about the sixth hour.



10:10
And being hungry, he was desirous to take somewhat. And as they were preparing, there fell upon him an excess of mind:


10:11
and he saw the Heaven opened, and a certain vessel descending, as it were a great linen sheet with four corners let down from Heaven to the earth,


10:13
And there came a voice to him: Arise Peter, kill, and eat.




10:14
But Peter said: God forbid, Lord; for I did never eat any common and unclean thing.



10:15
And a voice came to him again the second time: That which God hath purified, do not thou call common.


10:16
And this was done thrice, & forthwith the vessel was taken up again into Heaven.


10:17
And whiles Peter doubted within himself, what the vision should be that he had seen, behold the men that were sent from Cornelius, inquiring for Simon's house, stood at the gate.

10:18
And when they had called, they asked, if Simon that is surnamed Peter were lodged there.

10:19
And as Peter was thinking of the vision, the Spirit said to him: Behold, three men do seek thee.


10:20
Arise therefore, and get thee down, and go with them, doubting nothing; for I have sent them.




10:21
And Peter going down to the men, said: Behold I am he whom you seek; what is the cause, for the which you are come?



10:22
Who said: Cornelius the Centurion, a just man and that feareth God, and having testimony of all the nation of the Jews, received an answer of an holy Angel to send for thee into his house, and to hear words of thee.


10:23
Therefore bringing them in, he lodged them. And the day following he arose and went with them: and certain of the brethren of Joppe accompanied him.



10:24
And on the morrow he entered into Cæsarea. And Cornelius expected them, having called together his kin, and special friends.


10:25
And it came to pass, when Peter was come in, Cornelius came to meet him, & falling at his feet adored.


10:26
But Peter lifted him up saying: Arise, myself also am a man.



10:27
And talking with him, he went in, and findeth many that were assembled.


10:28
And he said to them: You know how abominable it is for a man that is a Jew, to join, or to approach unto a stranger: but God hath shewed to me, to call no man common or unclean.



10:29
For the which cause, making no doubt, I came when I was sent for. I demand therefore, for what cause you have sent for me?



10:30
And Cornelius said: Four days since, until this hour, I was praying the ninth hour in my house, and behold a man stood before me in white apparel,





10:31
and said: Cornelius, thy prayer is heard, and thy alms-deeds are in memory in the sight of God.


10:32
Send therefore to Joppe, and call hither Simon that is surnamed Peter: he lodgeth in the house of Simon a tanner by the sea side.



10:33
Immediately therefore I sent to thee: and thou hast done well in coming. Now therefore all we are present in thy sight, to hear all things whatsoever are commanded thee of the Lord.



10:34
And Peter opening his mouth, said: In very deed I perceive that God is not an accepter of persons.





10:36
The word did God send to the children of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christ (this is Lord of all.)


10:37
You know the word that hath been made through all Jewry, for beginning from Galilee, after the baptism which John preached:

10:38
Jesus of Nazareth how God anointed him with the Holy Ghost and with power, who went throughout doing good and healing all that were oppressed of the devil, because God was with him.

10:39
And we are witnesses of all things that he did in the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem, whom they killed hanging him upon a tree.


10:40
Him God raised up the third day and gave him to be made manifest,





10:42
And he commanded us to preach to the people, & to testify that it is he that of God was appointed judge of the living and of the dead.


10:43
To him all the prophets give testimony, that all receive remission of sins by his name, which believe in him.

10:44
As Peter was yet speaking these words, the Holy Ghost fell upon all that heard the word.

10:45
And the faithful of the Circumcision that came with Peter, were astonished, for that the grace of the Holy Ghost was poured out upon the Gentiles also.

10:46
For they heard them speaking with tongues, and magnifying God.

10:47
Then Peter answered: Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized which have received the Holy Ghost as well as we?



10:48
And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Then they desired him that he would tarry with them certain days.


