9:1
And Saul as yet breathing forth threatenings and slaughter against the Disciples of our Lord, came to the high priest,
and asked letters of him unto Damascus to the Synagogues that if he had found any men and women of this way,
he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem.

9:3
And as he went on his journey, it chanced that he drew nigh to Damascus:
and suddenly a light from Heaven shined round about him.

9:4
And falling on the ground, he heard a voice saying to him,
Saul, Saul why persecutest thou me?

9:5
Who said:
Who art thou Lord? And he:
I am Jesus whom thou doest persecute.
It is hard for thee to kick against the prick. And trembling and being astonished he said: Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?

9:7
And our Lord to him:
Arise and go into the city,
& it shall be told thee what thou must do. But the men that went in company with him,
stood amazed, hearing the voice, but seeing no man.

9:8
And Saul rose up from the ground, and his eyes being opened,
he saw nothing.
And they drawing him by the hands, brought him into Damascus.

9:9
And he was there three days not seeing,
and he did neither eat nor drink.


9:10
And there was a certain Disciple at Damascus, named Ananias:
and our Lord said to him in a vision, Ananias.
But he said,
Lo,
here I am Lord.

9:11
And our Lord to him:
Arise, and go into the street that is called Straight:
and seek in the house of Judas, one named Saul of Tarsus.
For behold he prayeth.

9:12
(And he saw a man named Ananias,
coming in and imposing hands upon him for to receive his sight.)

9:13
But Ananias answered:
Lord, I have heard by many of this man, how much evil he hath done to thy saints in Jerusalem:

9:14
and here he hath authority from the chief priests to bind all that invocate thy name.

9:15
And our Lord said to him:
Go, for a vessel of election is this man unto me,
to carry my name before the Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel.

9:16
For I will shew him how great things he must suffer for my name.

9:17
And Ananias went,
and entered into the house:
and imposing hands upon him,
he said: Brother Saul, our Lord Jesus hath sent me,
he that appeared to thee in the way that thou camest;
that thou mayest see and be filled with the Holy Ghost.

9:18
And forthwith there fell from his eyes as it were scales,
and he received sight:
and rising he was baptized.

9:19
And when he had taken meat, he was strengthened.
And he was with the Disciples that were at Damascus, for certain days.

9:20
And incontinent entering into the Synagogues, he preached Jesus, that this is the Son of God.

9:21
And all that heard,
were astonished,
and said:
Is not this he that expugned in Jerusalem those that invocated this name; and came hither to this purpose that he might bring them bound to the chief priests?

9:22
But Saul waxed mighty much more and confounded the Jews that dwelt at Damascus,
affirming that this is Christ.

9:23
And when many days were passed,
the Jews consulted that they might kill him.

9:24
But their conspiracy came to Saul's knowledge.
And they kept the gates also day and night,
that they might kill him.

9:25
But the Disciples taking him in the night, conveyed him away by the wall, letting him down in a basket.

9:26
And when he was come into Jerusalem, he assayed to join himself to the Disciples,
& all feared him, not believing that he was a Disciple.

9:27
But Barnabas took him & brought him to the Apostles,
and told them how in the way he had seen our Lord,
and that he spake unto him,
& how in Damascus he dealt confidently in the name of Jesus.

9:28
And he was with them going in & going out in Jerusalem, & dealing confidently in the name of our Lord.

9:29
He spake also to the Gentiles,
& disputed with the Greeks:
but they sought to kill him.

9:30
Which when the brethren had known,
they brought him down to Cæsarea & sent him away to Tarsus.

9:31
The Church truly through all Jewry & Galilee and Samaria had peace,
& was edified, walking in the fear of our Lord,
and was replenished with the consolation of the Holy Ghost.

9:32
And it came to pass,
that Peter as he passed through all,
came to the saints that dwelt at Lydda.

9:33
and he found there a certain man named Æneas, lying in his bed from eight years before, who had the palsy.

9:34
And Peter said to him:
Æneas, our Lord Jesus Christ heal thee:
arise,
and make thy bed.
And incontinent he arose.

9:35
And all that dwelt at Lydda and Sarona, saw him:
who converted to our Lord.

9:36
And in Joppe there was a certain Disciple named Tabitha, which by interpretation is called Dorcas.
This woman was full of good works & alms-deeds which she did.

9:37
And it came to pass in those days, that she was sick and died.
Whom when they had washed, they laid her in an upper chamber.

9:38
And whereas Lydda was nigh to Joppe, the Disciples hearing that Peter was in it, they sent two men unto him, desiring him:
Be not loath to come so far as to us.

9:39
And Peter rising up came with them.
And when he was come, they brought him into the upper chamber:
and all the widows stood about him weeping, and shewing him the coats and garments which Dorcas made them.

9:40
And all being put forth, Peter falling on his knees prayed,
and turning to the body he said: Tabitha,
arise.
And she opened her eyes: and seeing Peter,
she sat up.

9:41
And giving her his hand, he lifted her up.
And when he had called the saints and the widows, he presented her alive.

9:42
And it was made known throughout all Joppe:
and many believed in our Lord.

9:43
And it came to pass that he abode many days in Joppe, with one Simon a tanner.

