27:3
And the third day following we came to Sidon. And Julius entreating Paul courteously, permitted him to go to his friends, and to take care of himself.


27:4
And when we had loosed thence we sailed under Cypres: because the winds were contrary.

27:5
And sailing the sea of Cilicia and Pamphilia, we came to Lystra, which is in Lycia:

27:6
and there the Centurion finding a ship of Alexandria sailing into Italy, removed us into it.

27:7
And whereas many days we sailed slowly, and were scarce come over against Gnidus, the wind hindering us, we sailed near Crete by Salmone:

27:8
and with much ado sailing by it, we came into a certain place that is called Good-havens, nigh to the which was a city Thalassa.

27:9
And when much time was spent, and whereas now it was not safe sailing, because the fast now was past, Paul comforted them,



27:10
saying to them: Ye men, I see that the sailing beginneth to be with hurt and much damage, not only of the lading and the ship, but also of our lives.

27:11
But the Centurion believed the governor and master of the ship, more than those things which were said of Paul.

27:12
And whereas it was not a commodious haven to winter in, very many taking counsel appointed to sail thence, if by any means they might coming to Phoenice, winter there, a haven of Crete looking toward the Afrike and the Chore.


27:13
And the south-wind blowing, they thinking that they had obtained their purpose, when they had parted from Asson, sailed along by Crete.

27:14
But not long after, a tempestuous wind that is called Euro-aquilo, drove against it.

27:15
And when the ship was caught and could not make way against the wind, giving up the ship to the winds, we were driven,

27:16
And running upon a certain Island, that is called Cauda, we could scarce get the cock-boat.

27:17
Which being taken up, they used helps, girding the ship, and fearing lest they should fall into the Syrt, letting down the vessel, so were they carried.


27:18
And when we were mightily tossed with the tempest, the next day they cast forth.

27:19
And the third day with their own hands they threw forth the tacklings of the ship.

27:20
And neither sun, nor stars appearing for many days, and no small storm being toward, all hope was now taken away of our saving.

27:21
And when there had been long fasting, then Paul standing in the midst of them, said: You should indeed, O ye men, have heard me, and not have parted from Crete, & have gained this hurt and loss.


27:22
And now I exhort you to be of good cheer. For there shall be no loss of any soul among you, but of the ship.


27:23
For an Angel of the God whose I am, and whom I serve, stood by me this night,



27:24
saying: Fear not Paul, thou must appear before Cæsar: and behold God hath given thee all that sail with thee.



27:25
For the which cause be of good cheer ye men: for I believe God, that it shall so be, as it hath been said to me.



27:26
And we must come unto a certain island.

27:27
But after the fourteenth night was come on us, as we were sailing in Adria about mid-night, the ship-men deemed that there appeared some country to them.

27:28
Who also sounding, found twenty fathoms: and being parted a little from thence, they found fifteen fathoms.


27:29
And fearing lest we should fall into rough places, casting out of the stern four anchors, they wished that day were come.

27:31
Paul said to the Centurion and to the soldiers: unless these tarry in the ship you cannot be saved.

27:32
Then the soldiers cut off the ropes of the cock-boat; and suffered it to fall away.


27:33
And when it began to be light, Paul desired all to take meat, saying: This day is the fourteenth day that you expect and remain fasting, taking nothing.


27:35
And when he had said these things, taking bread he gave thanks to God in the sight of them all: and when he had broken it, he began to eat.


27:36
And being all made of better cheer, they also took meat.

27:37
And we were in all in the ship, souls two hundred seventy six.

27:38
And being filled with meat, they lighted the ship, casting the wheat into the sea.

27:39
And when day was come, they knew not the land: but they spied a certain creek that had a shore, into the which they minded, if they could, to cast aland the ship.


27:40
And when they had taken up the anchors, they committed themselves to the sea, loosing withal the rudder bands: and hoisting up the main sail according as the wind blew, they went on toward the shore.


27:41
And when we were fallen into a place between two seas, they graveled the ship: and the fore-part truly sticking fast remained unmoveable: but the hinder-part was broken by the violence of the sea.



27:42
And the counsel of the soldiers was, that they should kill the prisoners: lest any swimming out, might run away.


27:43
But the Centurion willing to save Paul, forbade it to be done: & he commanded them that could swim, to cast out themselves first, and escape, and go forth to land:


27:44
and the rest, some they carried on boards, & some upon those things that were of the ship. And so it came to pass, that all the souls escaped to land.


