24:1
And after five days the high priest Ananias descended, with certain ancients and one Tertullus an orator, who went to the President against Paul.

24:2
And Paul being cited, Tertullus began to accuse, saying: Whereas we live in much peace by thee, & many things are corrected by thy providence,




24:4
But lest I hinder thee any longer, I desire thee of thy clemency briefly to hear us.

24:5
We have found this man pestiferous, & raising seditions to all the Jews in the whole world, and author of the sedition of the sect of the Nazarenes.

24:6
Who also hath attempted to violate the temple, whom also being apprehended we would have judged according to our law.


24:8
commanding his accusers to come to thee, of whom thou mayest thyself judging, understand of all these things, whereof we accuse him.

24:9
And the Jews also added, saying that these things were so.

24:10
But Paul answered: (the President making a sign unto him for to speak) Knowing that of many years thou art judge over this nation, I will with good courage answer for myself.


24:12
And neither in the temple did they find me disputing with any man, or causing concourse of the multitude, neither in the synagogues, nor in the city:


24:14
But this I confess to thee, that according to the sect, which they call heresy, I do so serve the Father my God, believing all things that are written in the Law & the Prophets:

24:16
In this myself also do study to have a conscience without offence toward God and toward men always.

24:17
And after many years I came to bestow alms upon my nation, & oblations, and vows.


24:19
But certain Jews of Asia, who ought to be present before thee and to accuse, if they had any thing against me:


24:22
And Felix deferred them, knowing most certainly of this way, saying: When Lysias the Tribune is come down, I will hear you.


24:23
And he commanded the Centurion to keep him, and that he should have rest, neither to prohibit any of his to minister unto him.

24:25
And he disputing of justice and chastity, and of the judgement to come, Felix being terrified, answered: For this time, go thy way: but in time convenient I will send for thee.



24:26
hoping also withal, that money would be given him of Paul; for the which cause also oftentimes sending for him, he spake with him.

24:27
But when two years were ended, Felix had a Successor Portius Festus. And Felix being willing to shew the Jews a pleasure, left Paul in prison.


