5:1
And of the times and moments, brethren, you need not that we write to you.

5:2
For yourselves know perfectly that the day of our Lord shall so come, as a thief in the night.

5:3
For when they shall say, peace & security; then shall sudden destruction come upon them, as the pains to her that is with child, and they shall not escape.




5:4
But you, brethren, are not in darkness; that the same day may as a thief over-take you.


5:5
For all you are the children of light, and children of the day: we are not of the night nor of darkness.


5:6
Therefore let us not sleep as also others: but let us watch & be sober.



5:7
For they that sleep, sleep in the night; & they that be drunk, be drunk in the night.


5:8
But we that are of the day, are sober, having on, the breast-plate of faith and charity, and a helmet, the hope of salvation.

5:9
For God hath not appointed us unto wrath, but unto the purchasing of salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ,


5:11
For the which cause comfort one another: and edify one another, as also you do.



5:12
And we beseech you, brethren, that you will know them that labour among you, and that govern you in our Lord and admonish you:


5:13
that you have them more aboundantly in charity for their work. Have peace with them.

5:14
And we beseech you, brethren, admonish the unquiet, comfort the weak-minded, bear up the weak, be patient to all.





5:15
See that none render evil for evil to any man: but always that which is good pursue towards each other, & towards all.


5:16
Always rejoice.

5:17
Pray without intermission.

5:18
In all things give thanks. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus in all you.


5:19
The Spirit extinguish not.

5:20
Prophecies despise not.

5:21
But prove all things: hold that which is good.


5:22
From all appearance of evil refrain yourselves.

5:23
And the God of peace himself sanctify you in all things: that your whole spirit, and soul and body without blame may be preserved in the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.


5:24
He is faithful, that hath called you, who also will do it.


5:25
Brethren pray for us.

5:26
Salute all the brethren in a holy kiss.

5:27
I adjure you by our Lord that this epistle be read to all the holy brethren.

5:28
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.


