3:1
O senseless Galatians, who hath bewitched you, not to obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was proscribed, being crucified among you?

3:2
This only I would learn of you: By the works of the Law, did you receive the Spirit, or by the hearing of the faith?


3:3
Are you so foolish, that whereas you began with the spirit, now you will be consummate with the flesh?


3:4
Have you suffered so great things without cause? if yet without cause.

3:5
He therefore that giveth you the Spirit, and worketh miracles among you; by the works of the Law, or by the hearing of the faith doeth he it?



3:6
As, Abraham believed God, and it was reputed to him unto justice.


3:7
Know ye therefore that they that are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham.

3:8
And the Scripture foreseeing that God justifieth the Gentiles by faith, shewed unto Abraham before, That in thee shall all nations be blessed.

3:9
Therefore they that are of faith, shall be blessed with the faithful Abraham.

3:10
For whosoever are of the works of the Law, are under curse. For it is written: Cursed be every one that abideth not in all things that be written in the book of the Law, to do them.




3:11
But that in the Law no man is justified with God, it is manifest, because the just liveth by faith.

3:12
But the Law is not by faith: but, He that doeth those things, shall live in them.


3:15
Brethren (I speak according to man) yet a man's testament being confirmed no man despiseth, or further disposeth.



3:16
To Abraham were the promises said, and to his seed. He saith not, And to seeds, as in many: but as in one, And to thy seed, which is Christ.







3:17
And this I say, the testament being confirmed of God, the Law which was made after four hundred and thirty years, maketh not void to frustrate the promise.


3:18
For if the inheritance be of the Law, now not of promise. But God gave it to Abraham by promise.


3:19
Why was the Law then? It was put for transgressions, until the seed came to whom he had promised: ordained by Angels in the hand of a mediator.




3:20
And a mediator is not of one: but God is one.


3:21
Was the Law then against the promises of God? God forbid. For if there had been a Law given that could justify, undoubtedly justice should be of the Law.



3:22
But the Scripture hath concluded all things under sin: that the promise by the faith of Jesus Christ might be given to them that believe.


3:23
But before the faith came, under the Law we were kept shut up, unto that faith which was to be revealed.

3:24
Therefore the Law was our Pedagogue in Christ: that we may be justified by faith.


3:25
But when the faith came, now we are not under a pedagogue.

3:26
For you are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus.

3:27
For as many of you as are baptized in Christ, have put on Christ.

3:28
There is not Jew nor Greek, there is not bond nor free, there is not male nor female. For all you are one in Christ Jesus.




3:29
And if you be Christ's, then are you the seed of Abraham, heirs according to promise.

