5:1
Stand, and be not holden in again with the yoke of servitude.


5:3
And I testify again to every man circumciding himself, that he is a debter to do the whole Law.

5:4
You are evacuated from Christ, that are justified in the Law: you are fallen from grace.


5:5
For we in spirit, by faith, expect the hope of justice.

5:7
You ran well, who hath hindered you not to obey the truth?


5:8
The persuasion is not of him that calleth you.

5:9
Alittle leaven corrupted the whole paste.

5:10
I have confidence in you in our Lord, that you will be of no other mind: but he that troubleth you, shall bear the judgement, whosoever he be.



5:11
And as for me, brethren, if as yet I preach circumcision, why do I yet suffer persecution? Then is the scandal of the cross evacuated.


5:12
I would they were also cut off that trouble you.

5:13
For you, brethren, are called into liberty: only make not this liberty an occasion to the flesh, but by charity serve one another.



5:14
For all the Law is fulfilled in one word: Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.


5:15
But if you bite and eat one another, take heed you be not consumed one of another.

5:16
And I say, walk in the spirit, and the lusts of the flesh you shall not accomplish.



5:17
For the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh: for these are adversaries one to another: that not what things soever you will, these you do.




5:18
But if you be led by the spirit, you are not under the Law.

5:19
And the works of the flesh be manifest, which are fornication, uncleanness, impudicity, lechery,


5:21
envies, murders, ebrieties, commessations, and such like. Which I foretell you, as I have foretold you, that they which do such things, shall not obtain the Kingdom of God.

5:22
But the fruit of the Spirit is, Charity, joy, peace, patience, benignity, goodness, longanimity,

5:23
mildness, faith, modesty, continency, chastity. Against such there is no law.

5:24
And they that be Christ's, have crucified their flesh with the vices and concupiscences.

5:25
If we live in the spirit, in the spirit also let us walk.

5:26
Let us not be made desirous of vain glory, provoking one another, envying one another.

