4:1
And I say,
as long as the heir is a little one, he differeth nothing from a servant, although he be lord of all,

4:2
But is under tutors and governors until the time limited of the father:

4:3
so we also, when we were little ones, were serving under the elements of the world.

4:4
But when the fullness of time came, God sent his Son made of a woman, made under the Law:
that he might redeem them that were under the Law;
that we might receive the adoption of sons.

4:6
And because you are sons, God hath sent the Spirit of his son into your hearts crying:
Abba, Father.

4:7
Therefore now he is not a servant, but a son.
And if a son, an heir also by God.

4:8
But then indeed not knowing God, you served them that by nature are not Gods.

4:9
But now when you have known God,
or rather are known of God,
how turn you again to the weak & poor elements,
which you will serve again?

4:10
You observe days, and months, and times, and years.

4:11
Ifear you, lest perhaps I have laboured in vain among you.

4:12
Be ye as I, because I also am as you: Brethren, I beseech you, you have hurt me nothing.
And you know that by infirmity of the flesh I evangelized to you heretofore:
and your tentation in my flesh you despised not, neither rejected, but as and Angel of God you received me, as Christ Jesus.

4:15
Where is then your blessedness? for I give you testimony that if it could be done,
you would have plucked out your eyes and have given them to me.

4:16
Am I then become your enemy, telling you the truth?

4:17
They emulate you not well:
but they would exclude you,
that you might emulate them.

4:18
But do you emulate the good in good always: and not only when I am present with you.

4:19
My little children,
whom I travail withal again, until Christ be formed in you.

4:20
And I would be with you now and change my voice: because I am confounded in you.

4:21
Tell me, you that will be under the law,
have you not read the Law?

4:22
For it is written that Abraham had two sons:
one of the bond-woman,
and one of the free-woman.

4:23
But he that of the bond-woman, was born according to the flesh:
and he that of the free-woman, by the promise.

4:24
Which things are said by an allegory.
For these are the two testaments.
The one from mount Sina, gendering unto bondage; which is Agar,

4:25
(for Sina is a mountain in Arabia,
which hath affinity to that which now is Jerusalem) and serveth with her children.

4:26
But that Jerusalem which is above, is free; which is our mother.

4:27
For it is written:
Rejoice thou barren,
that bearest not:
break forth and cry,
that travailest not: because many are the children of the desolate, more than of her that hath a husband.

4:28
But we brethren, according to Isaac, are the children of promise.

4:29
But as then he that was born according to the flesh, persecuted him that was after the spirit; so now also.

4:30
But what saith the Scripture? Cast out the bond-woman and her son.
For the son of the bond-woman shall not be heir with the son of the free-woman.


4:31
Therefore, brethren, we are not the children of the bond-woman, but of the free:
by the freedom wherewith Christ hath made us free.

