11:20
By faith, also of things to come, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau. By faith, Jacob dying, blessed every one of the sons of Joseph: and adored the top of his rod. By faith, Joseph dying, made mention of the going forth of the children of Israel: and gave commandment concerning his bones. By faith, Moyses being born, was hid three months by his parents: because they saw him a proper infant, and they feared not the king's edict. By faith, Moyses being made great, denied himself to be the son of Pharao's daughter: rather choosing to be afflicted with the people of God, than to have the pleasure of temporal sin, esteeming the reproach of Christ, greater riches than the treasure of the Ægyptians. For he looked unto the remuneration. By faith, he left Ægypt: not fearing the fierceness of the king. For him that is invisible he sustained as if he had seen him. By faith, he celebrated the Pasch, & the shedding of the blood: that he which destroyed the first-born, might not touch them. By faith they passed the red sea as it were by the dry land: which the Ægyptians assaying, were devoured. By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, by the circuiting of seven days. By faith, Rahab the harlot perished not with the incredulous, receiving the spies with peace. And what shall I yet say? For the time will fail me telling of Gedeon, Barac, Sampson, Jephte, David, Samuel, & the prophets: who by faith overcame kingdoms, wrought justice, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, extinguished the force of fire, repelled the edge of the sword, recovered of their infirmity, were made strong in battle, turned away the camp of foreigners: women received of resurrection their dead, and others were racked, not accepting redemption, that they might find a better resurrection. And others had trial of mockeries and stripes, moreover also of bands and prisons: they were stoned, they were hewed, they were tempted, they died in the slaughter of the sword, they went about in sheep-skins, in goats' skins, needy, in distress, afflicted:

11:38
of whom the world was not worthy; wandering in deserts, in mountains & dens, and in caves of the earth. And all these being approved by the testimony of faith, received not the promise, God for us providing some better thing, that they without us should not be consummate.

