4:1
What shall we say then that Abraham did find, our father according to the flesh?

4:3
For what saith the Scripture? Abraham believed God, & it was reputed him to justice.



4:4
But to him that worketh, the reward is not imputed according to grace but according to debt.

4:5
But to him that worketh not, yet believeth in him that justifieth the impious, his faith is reputed to justice according to the purpose of the grace of God.

4:7
Blessed are they, whose iniquities be forgiven, and whose sins be covered.


4:8
Blessed is the man to whom our Lord hath not imputed sin.

4:9
This blessedness then doth it abide in the circumcision, or in the prepuce also? For we say that unto Abraham faith was reputed to justice.


4:10
How was it reputed? in circumcision, or in prepuce? Not in circumcision, but in prepuce.



4:11
And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the justice of faith that is in prepuce: that he might be the father of all that believe by the prepuce, that unto them also it may be reputed to justice:


4:12
and might be father of circumcision, not to them only that are of the circumcision, but to them also that follow the steps of the faith that is in the prepuce of our father Abraham.


4:13
For not by the Law was the promise to Abraham, or to his seed, that he should be heir of the world; but by the justice of faith.

4:14
For if they that are of the Law, be heirs; faith is made void, the promise is abolished.


4:15
For the Law worketh wrath. For where is no Law, neither is there prevarication.


4:17
For, a father of many Nations have I appointed thee ) before God, whom thou didst believe, who quickeneth the dead; calleth those things that are not, as those things that are.




4:18
Who contrary to hope believed in hope; that he might be made the father of many nations, according to that which was said to him: So shall thy seed be, as the stars of Heaven, and the sand of the sea.


4:19
And he was not weakened in faith; neither did he consider his own body now quite dead, whereas he was almost an hundred years old, and the dead matrice of Sara.

4:20
In the promise also of God he staggered not by distrust; but was strengthened in faith, giving glory to God:


4:21
most fully knowing that whatsoever he promised, he is able also to do.

4:22
Therefore was it also reputed him to justice.

4:23
And it is not written only for him, that it was reputed him to justice:

4:24
but also for us, to whom it shall be reputed believing in him, that raised up Jesus Christ our Lord from the dead,


