1:1
Paul the servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an Apostle, separated into the Gospel of God, which before he had promised by his Prophets in the holy Scriptures. of his Son, (who was made to him of the seed of David according to the flesh, who was predestinate the Son of God in power, according to the spirit of sanctification, by the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ from the dead,

1:5
by whom we have received grace and Apostleship for obedience to the faith in all Nations for the name of him,

1:6
among whom are you also the called of Jesus Christ:)

1:7
to all that are at Rome the beloved of God, called to be saints. Grace to you and peace from God our father, and our Lord Jesus Christ. First I give thanks to my God through Jesus Christ for all you, because your faith is renowned in the whole world.

1:9
For God is my witness, whom I serve in my spirit in the Gospel of his Son, that without intermission I make a memory of you

1:10
always in my prayers, beseeching, if by any means I may sometime at the length have a prosperous journey by the will of God, to come unto you.

1:11
For I desire to see you,
that I may impart unto you some spiritual grace, to confirm you:

1:12
that is to say, to be comforted together in you by that which is common to us both, your faith & mine.

1:13
And I will not have you ignorant (brethren) that I have often purposed to come unto you (and have been stayed hitherto) that I may have some fruit in you,
as also in the other Gentiles.


1:14
To the Greeks & the Barbarous, to the wise and the unwise I am debter. So (as much as is in me) I am ready to evangelize to you also that are at Rome.

1:16
For I am not ashamed of the Gospel.
For it is the power of God, unto salvation to every one that believeth, to the Jews first and to the Greek.

1:17
For the justice of God is revealed therein by faith into faith; as it is written:
And the just liveth by faith.

1:18
For the wrath of God from Heaven is revealed, upon all impiety and injustice of those men that detain the verity of God in injustice:

1:19
because, that of God which is known, is manifest in them. For God hath manifested it unto them.

1:20
For his invisible things, from the creation of the world are seen, being understood by those things that are made; his eternal power also and Divinity: so that they are inexcusable.

1:21
Because, whereas they knew God,
they have not glorified him as God,
or given thanks:
but are become vain in their cogitations, and their foolish heart hath been darkened.

1:22
For, saying themselves to be wise, they became fools.

1:23
And they changed the glory of the incorruptible God, into a similitude of the image of a corruptible man, and of fowls and four-footed beasts and of them that creep.

1:24
(For the which cause God hath delivered them up unto the desires of their heart, unto uncleanness,
for to abuse their own bodies among themselves ignominiously.)

1:25
Who have changed the verity of God into lying:
and have worshipped & served the creature rather than the Creator,
who is blessed for ever.
Amen.

1:26
Therefore God hath delivered them into passions of ignominy.
For their women have changed the natural use, into that use that is contrary to nature.

1:27
And in like manner the men also, leaving the natural use of the woman,
have burned in their desires one toward another,
men upon men working turpitude, & the reward of their error (which they should) receiving in themselves.

1:28
And as they liked not to have God in knowledge;
God delivered them up into a reprobate sense, to do those things that are not convenient:
replenished with all iniquity, malice, fornication, avarice, wickedness, full of envy, murder, contention, guile, malignity, whisperers, detractors, odible to God, contumelious, proud, haughty, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents, foolish, dissolute, without affection, without fidelity, without mercy.

1:32
Who whereas they knew the justice of God, did not understand that they which do such things, are worthy of death:
not only they that do them,
but they also that consent to the doers.

