15:1
And we that are the stronger, must sustain the infirmities of the weak, & not please ourselves.

15:2
Let every one of you please his neighbour unto good, to edification.

15:3
For, Christ did not please himself, but as it is written: The reproaches of them that reproached thee, fell upon me.



15:4
For what things soever have been written, to our learning they are written: that by the patience and consolation of the Scriptures, we may have hope.


15:5
And the God of patience and of comfort give you to be of one mind one toward another according to Jesus Christ:


15:7
For the which cause receive one another; as Christ also hath received you unto the honour of God.


15:8
For I say Christ Jesus to have been minister of the circumcision for the verity of God to confirm the promises of the fathers.

15:9
But the Gentiles to honour God for his mercy, as it is written: Therefore will I confess to thee in the Gentiles o Lord, and will sing to thy name.




15:10
And again he saith: Rejoice ye Gentiles with his people.

15:11
And again: Praise all ye Gentiles our Lord; and magnify him all ye peoples.



15:12
And again Esaie saith: There shall be the root of Jesse; and he that shall rise up to rule the Gentiles, in him the Gentiles shall hope.



15:13
And the God of hope replenish you with all joy and peace in believing; that you may abound in hope, and in the virtue of the Holy Ghost.


15:14
And I myself also, my brethren, am assured of you, that you also are full of love, replenished with all knowledge, so that you are able to admonish one another.


15:15
But I have written to you (brethren) more boldly in part, as it were putting you in remembrance; for the grace which is given me of God,




15:17
I have therefore glory in Christ Jesus toward God.

15:18
For I dare not speak any of those things which Christ worketh not by me for the obedience of the Gentiles, by word and deeds,

15:19
in the virtue of signs and wonders, in the virtue of the Holy Ghost: so that from Jerusalem round about unto Illyricum I have replenished the Gospel of Christ.


15:20
And I have so preached this Gospel, not where Christ was named, lest I should build upon another man's foundation;


15:21
but as it is written: They to whom it hath not been preached of him, shall see, and they that have not heard, shall understand.



15:22
For the which cause also I was hindered very much from coming unto you.

15:23
But now having no longer place in these countries, and having a desire to come unto you these many years now passed:


15:24
when I shall begin to take my journey into Spain, I hope that as I pass, I shall see you, and be brought thither of you, if first in part I shall have enjoyed you.


15:25
Now therefore I will go unto Jerusalem to minister to the saints.

15:26
For Macedonia and Achaia have liked well to make some contribution upon the poor saints that are in Jerusalem.

15:27
For it hath pleased them: and they are their debters. For if the Gentiles be made partakers of their spiritual things; they ought also in carnal things to minister unto them.



15:28
This therefore when I shall have accomplished, and signed them this fruit, I will go by you into Spain.



15:29
And I know that coming to you, I shall come in aboundance of the blessing of Christ.

15:30
I beseech you therefore brethren by our Lord Jesus Christ, and by the charity of the Holy Ghost, that you help me in your prayers for me to God,





15:33
And the God of peace be with you all. Amen.


