3:1
What preeminence then hath the Jew, or what is the profit of circumcision?


3:2
Much by all means. First surely because the words of God were committed to them.


3:3
For what if certain of them have not believed? Hath their incredulity made the faith of God frustrate?



3:4
God forbid. But God is true, & every man a liar, as it is written: That thou mayest be justified in thy words, and overcome when thou art judged.






3:5
But if our iniquity commend the justice of God, what shall we say? Is God unjust that executeth wrath? (I speak according to man)



3:6
God forbid; otherwise how shall God judge this world?


3:7
For if the verity of God hath abounded in my lie, unto his glory, why am I also yet judged as a sinner,

3:8
and not (as we are blasphemed, and as some report us to say) let us do evil, that there may come good? whose damnation is just.





3:9
What then? do we excel them? No, not so. For we have argued the Jews and the Greeks, all to be under sin;




3:10
as it is written: That there is not any man just,


3:11
there is not that understandeth, there is not that seeketh after God.


3:12
All have declined, they are become unprofitable together: there is not that doeth good, there is not so much as one.




3:13
Their throat is an open sepulchre, with their tongues they dealt deceitfully. The venom of asps under their lips.



3:14
Whose mouth is full of malediction and bitterness:

3:15
Their feet swift to shed blood.

3:16
Destruction & infelicity in their ways:

3:17
and the way of peace they have not known.

3:18
There is no fear of God before their eyes.

3:19
And we know that whatsoever the Law speaketh, to them it speaketh that are in the Law; that every mouth may be stopped, & all the world may be made subject to God:



3:20
because by the works of the Law no flesh shall be justified before him. For by the Law is the knowledge of sin.


3:21
But now without the Law the justice of God is manifested; testified by the Law and the Prophets.

3:22
And the justice of God by faith of Jesus Christ, unto all and upon all that believe in him. For there is no distinction.


3:23
For all have sinned; and do need the glory of God.


3:24
Justified gratis by his grace, by the redemption that is in Christ Jesus,

3:25
whom God hath proposed a propitiation, by faith in his blood, to the shewing of his justice, for the remission of former sins,


3:27
Where is then thy boasting? it is excluded. By what law? of deeds? No, but by the law of faith.






3:28
For we account a man to be justified by faith without the works of the Law.

3:29
Is he God of the Jews only? is he not also of the Gentiles? Yes of the Gentiles also.



3:30
For it is one God, that justifieth circumcision by faith, and prepuce by faith.

3:31
Do we then destroy the Law by faith? God forbid, but we do establish the Law.



