11:1
I say then:
Hath God rejected his people? God forbid.
For I also am an Israelite,
of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Ben-jamin.

11:2
God hath not rejected his people which he foreknew.
Or know you not in Elias what the Scripture saith;
how he requesteth God against Israel?

11:3
Lord,
they have slain thy Prophets,
they have digged down thine Altars: and I am left alone,
& they seek my life.

11:4
But what saith the divine answer unto him? I have left me seven thousand men,
that have not bowed their knees to Baal?

11:5
So therefore at this time also, there are remains saved according to the election of grace.

11:6
And if by grace, not now of works. Otherwise grace now is not grace.

11:7
What then? that which Israel sought,
the same he hath not obtained;
but the election hath obtained,
and the rest were blinded:

11:8
as it is written: God hath given them the spirit of compunction;
eyes, that they may not see, and ears, that they may not hear; until this present day.

11:9
And David saith:
Be their table made for a snare and for a trap & for a scandal & for a retribution unto them.

11:10
Be their eyes darkened,
that they may not see:
& their back make thou always crooked.

11:11
Isay then,
have they so stumbled,
that they should fall? God forbid.
But by their offence,
salvation is to the Gentiles, that they may emulate them.

11:12
And if the offence of them be the riches of the world, and the diminution of them the riches of the Gentiles; how much more the fullness of them?

11:13
For to you Gentiles I say,
as long verily as I am the Apostle of the Gentiles, I will honour my ministry,
if by any means I may provoke my flesh to emulation,
and may save some of them.

11:15
For if the loss of them be the reconciliation of the world; what shall the receiving be, but life from the dead?

11:16
And if the first fruit be holy, the mass also:
and if the root be holy, the boughs also.

11:17
And if some of the boughs be broken, and thou whereas thou wast a wild olive, art graffed in them, and art made partaker of the root and of the fatness of the olive, glory not against the boughs.
And if thou glory;
not thou bearest the root, but the root thee.

11:19
Thou sayest then:
The boughs were broken,
that I might be graffed in.

11:20
Well:
because of incredulity they were broken, but thou by faith doest stand:
be not too highly wise; but fear.
For if God hath not spared the natural boughs;
lest perhaps he will not spare thee neither.

11:22
See then the goodness and the severity of God:
upon them surely that are fallen, the severity;
but upon thee the goodness of God, if thou abide in his goodness;
otherwise thou also shalt be cut off.

11:23
But they also, if they do not abide in incredulity, shall be graffed in.
For God is able to graff them in again.

11:24
For if thou wast cut out of the natural wild olive, and contrary to nature wast graffed into the good olive; how much more they that are according to nature shall be graffed into their own olive?

11:25
For I will not have you ignorant, brethren,
of this mystery (that you be not wise in yourselves) that blindness in part hath chanced in Israel,
until the fullness of the Gentiles might enter:

11:26
and so all Israel might be saved,
as it is written: There shall come out of Sion,
he that shall deliver, and shall avert impiety from Jacob.

11:27
And this to them the testament from me: when I shall have taken away their sins.

11:28
According to the Gospel indeed enemies for you:
but according to the election, most dear for the fathers.

11:29
For without repentance are the gifts & the vocation of God.

11:30
For as you also sometime did not believe God, but now have obtained mercy because of their incredulity;

11:31
so these also now have not believed, for your mercy,
that they also may obtain mercy.

11:32
For God hath concluded all into incredulity,
that he may have mercy on all.

11:33
O depth of the riches of the wisdom and of the knowledge of God:
how incomprehensible are his judgements, and his ways unsearchable?

11:34
For who hath known the mind of our Lord? or who hath been his Counseller?


11:35
Or who hath first given to him,
and retribution shall be made him?

11:36
For of him, and by him, and in him are all things:
to him be glory for ever.
Amen.

