16:2
that you receive her in our Lord as it is worthy for saints: and that you assist her in whatsoever business she shall need you. For she also hath assisted many, and myself.

16:3
Salute Prisca & Aquila my helpers in Christ Jesus,

16:4
who for my life have laid down their necks; to whom not I only give thanks, but also all the Churches of the Gentiles,

16:5
and their domestical Church.
Salute Epænetus my beloved: who is the first fruit of Asia in Christ.

16:6
Salute Mary who hath laboured much about us.

16:7
Salute Andronicus and Iulia my cousins and fellow captives: who are noble among the Apostles, who also before me were in Christ.

16:8
Salute Ampliatus my best beloved in our Lord.

16:9
Salute Urbanus our helper in Christ Jesus, and Stachys my beloved.

16:10
Salute Apelles approved in Christ. Salute them that are of Aristobolus' house.

16:11
Salute Herodion my kinsman.
Salute them that are of Narcissus' house,
that are in our Lord.


16:12
Salute Tryphæna and Tryphosa:
who labour in our Lord. Salute Persis the beloved, who hath much laboured in our Lord.

16:13
Salute Rufus the elect in our Lord and his mother and mine.

16:14
Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes: and the brethren that are with them.

16:15
Salute Philologus and Iulia, Nereus, and his sister, and Olympias; and all the saints that are with them.

16:16
Salute one another in a holy kiss.
All the churches of Christ salute you.

16:17
And I desire you, brethren, to mark them that make dissensions and scandals contrary to the doctrine which you have learned,
and avoid them.

16:18
For such do not serve Christ our Lord, but their own belly:
and by sweet speeches and benedictions seduce the hearts of innocents.

16:19
For our obedience is published into every place.
I rejoice therefore in you.
But I would have you to be wise in good, and simple in evil.

16:20
And the God of peace crush Satan under your feet quickly.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.

16:21
Timothee my coadjutor saluteth you, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my kinsmen.

16:22
I Tertius salute you, that wrote the epistle, in our Lord.

16:23
Caius mine host, and the whole Churches, saluteth you.
Erastus the Cofferer of the city saluteth you, and Quartus, a brother. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with all you, Amen.

16:25
And to him that is able to confirm you according to my Gospel and preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery from eternal times kept secret, which now is opened by the Scriptures of the Prophets according to the precept of the eternal God, to the obedience of faith known in all Gentiles,

16:27
to God the only wise through Jesus Christ, to whom be honour & glory for ever and ever. Amen.

