7:1
Are you ignorant, brethren, (for I speak to them that know the Law) that the Law hath dominion over a man as long time as he liveth?




7:2
For the woman that is under a husband; her husband living is bound to the law. But if her husband be dead, she is loosed from the law of her husband.

7:4
Therefore my brethren you also are made dead to the Law by the body of Christ; that you may be another man's who is risen again from the dead, that we may fructify to God.



7:5
For when we were in the flesh, the passions of sins that were by the Law, did work in our members, to fructify unto death.


7:6
But now we are loosed from the law of death wherein we were detained: in so much we serve in newness of spirit, and not in the oldness of the letter.


7:7
What shall we say then? Is the Law sin? God forbid. But sin I did not know, but by the Law: for concupiscence I knew not, unless the Law did say: Thou shalt not covet.







7:8
But occasion being taken, sin by the commandment wrought in me all concupiscence. For without the Law sin was dead.


7:9
And I lived without the Law sometime. But when the commandment was come, sin revived.

7:10
And I was dead. And the commandment, that was unto life, the same to me was found to be unto death.


7:11
For sin taking occasion by the commandment, seduced me, and by it killed me.


7:12
Therefore the Law indeed is holy, and the commandment holy, and just, and good.

7:13
That then which is good, to me was it made death? God forbid. But sin, that it may appear sin, by the good thing wrought me death: that sin might become sinning above measure by the commandment.





7:14
For we know that the Law is spiritual, but I am carnal, sold under sin.


7:15
For that which I work, I understand not. For not that which I will, the same do I, but which I hate, that I do.



7:16
And if that which I will not, the same I do; I consent to the Law, that it is good.

7:17
But now, not I work it any more, but the sin that dwelleth in me.

7:18
For I know that there dwelleth not in me, that is to say, in my flesh, good. For to will, is present with me, but to accomplish that which is good, I find not.





7:19
For not the good which I will, that do I; but the evil which I will not, that I do.


7:20
And if that which I will not, the same I do: now not I work it, but the sin that dwelleth in me.

7:22
For I am delighted with the Law of God according to the inward man:

7:23
but I see another law in my members, repugning to the law of my mind, and captiving me in the law of sin that is in my members.

7:24
Unhappy man that I am, who shall deliver me from the body of this death?


7:25
The grace of God by Jesus Christ our Lord. Therefore I myself with the mind serve the law of God, but with the flesh, the law of sin.


