8:1
There is now therefore no damnation to them that are in Christ Jesus; that walk not according to the flesh.

8:2
For the Law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus, hath delivered me from the law of sin and of death.

8:3
For that which was impossible to the Law, in that it was weakened by the flesh; God sending his Son in the similitude of the flesh of sin, even of sin damned sin in the flesh,



8:4
that the justification of the Law might be fulfilled in us who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit.

8:5
For they that are according to the flesh, are affected to the things that are of the flesh; but they that are according to the spirit are affected to the things that are of the spirit.


8:6
For the wisdom of the flesh is death; but the wisdom of the spirit, life and peace.


8:7
Because the wisdom of the flesh, is an enemy to God: for to the Law of Got it is not subject, neither can it be.



8:8
And they that are in the flesh, cannot please God.

8:9
But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, yet if the Spirit of God dwell in you. But if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, the same is not his.


8:10
But if Christ be in you; the body indeed is dead because of sin, but the spirit liveth because of justification.

8:11
And if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead, dwell in you; he that raised up Jesus Christ from the dead, shall quicken also your mortal bodies, because of his Spirit dwelling in you.

8:12
Therefore brethren, we are debters, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh.


8:14
For whosoever are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God.

8:15
For you have not received the spirit of servitude again in fear; but you have received the spirit of adoption of sons, wherein we cry: Abba, (Father).



8:16
For the Spirit himself, giveth testimony to our spirit, that we are the sons of God.

8:17
And if sons, heirs also; heirs truly of God, and coheirs of Christ: yet if we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified with him.




8:18
For I think that the passions of this time are not condign to the glory to come that shall be revealed in us.

8:19
For the expectation of the creature, expecteth the revelation of the sons of God.

8:20
For the creature is made subject to vanity, not willing, but for him that made it subject in hope:


8:22
For we know that every creature groaneth, & travaileth even till now.

8:23
And not only it, but we also ourselves having the first fruits of the spirit, we also groan within ourselves, expecting the adoption of the sons of God, the redemption of our body.


8:24
For by hope we are saved. But hope that is seen, is not hope. For that which a man seeth, wherefore doth he hope it?



8:25
But if we hope for that which we see not; we expect by patience.

8:26
And in like manner also the Spirit helpeth our infirmity. For, what we should pray as we ought, we know not: but the Spirit himself requesteth for us with groanings unspeakable.



8:27
And he that searcheth the hearts, knoweth what the Spirit desireth: because according to God he requesteth for the saints.

8:28
And we know that to them that love God, all things cooperate unto good, to such as according to purpose are called to be saints.

8:29
For whom he hath foreknown, he hath also predestinated to be made conformable to the image of his Son: that he might be the first-born in many brethren.

8:30
And whom he hath predestinated; them also he hath called. And whom he hath called; them also he hath justified. And whom he hath justified; them also hath he glorified.



8:31
What shall we then say to these things? If God be for us, who is against us?


8:32
He that spared not also his own Son, but for us all delivered him; how hath he not also with him given us all things?

8:33
Who shall accuse against the elect of God? God that justifieth.


8:34
Who is he that shall condemn? Christ Jesus that died, yea that is risen also again, who is on the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us.





8:35
Who then shall separate us from the charity of Christ? tribulation? or distress? or famine? or nakedness? or danger? or persecution? or the sword?








8:36
(as it is written: For we are killed for thy sake all the day: we are esteemed as sheep of slaughter. )


8:37
But in all these things we overcome because of him that hath loved us.

8:38
For I am sure that neither death, nor life, nor Angels, nor Principalities, nor Powers, neither things present, nor things to come, neither might,

