5:1
Being justified therefore by faith, let us have peace toward God by our Lord Jesus Christ;

5:2
by whom also we have access through faith into this grace wherein we stand, and glory, in the hope of the glory of the sons of God.


5:3
And not only this; but also we glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulation worketh patience:



5:5
and hope confoundeth not: because the charity of God is poured forth in our hearts, by the Holy Ghost which is given us.


5:6
For why did Christ, when we as yet were weak, according to the time die for the impious?

5:7
For, scarce for a just man doth any die: for perhaps for a good man durst some man die.


5:8
But God commendeth his charity in us: because, when as yet we were sinners, Christ died for us.


5:9
Much more therefore now being justified in his blood, shall we be saved from wrath by him.

5:10
For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son; much more being reconciled, shall we be saved in the life of him.

5:11
And not only this; but also we glory in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom now we have received reconciliation.


5:12
Therefore, as by one man sin entered into this world, and by sin death; and so unto all men death did pass, in which all sinned.



5:13
For even unto the Law sin was in the world: but sin was not imputed, when the Law was not.



5:14
But death reigned from Adam unto Moyses, even on them also that sinned not after the similitude of the prevarication of Adam, who is a figure of him to come.

5:15
But not as the offence, so also the gift. For if by the offence of one, many died; much more the grace of God and the gift, in the grace of one man Jesus Christ, hath abounded upon many.


5:16
And not as by one sin, so also the gift. For judgement indeed is of one, to condemnation: but grace is of many offences, to justification.



5:17
For if in the offence of one, death reigned by one; much more they that receive the aboundance of grace and of donation & of justice, shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ.

5:18
Therefore as by the offence of one, unto all men to condemnation; so also by the justice of one, unto all men to justification of life.

5:19
For as by the disobedience of one man, many were made sinners; so also by the obedience of one, many shall be made just.


5:20
But the Law entered in, that sin might abound. And where sin abounded, grace did more abound.



5:21
That as sin reigned to death; so also grace may reign by justice to life everlasting, through Jesus Christ our Lord.

