2:1
For the which cause thou art inexcusable, o man, whosoever thou be that judgest. For wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself. For thou doest the same things which thou judgest.



2:2
For we know that the judgement of God is according to verity upon them that do such things.

2:3
And doest thou suppose this, o man, that judgest them which do such things, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgement of God?



2:4
Or doest thou contemn the riches of his goodness, and patience, and longanimity, not knowing that the benignity of God bringeth thee to penance?

2:5
But according to thy hardness and impenitent heart, thou heapest to thyself wrath, in the day of wrath and of the revelation of the just judgement of God,


2:7
to them truly that according to patience in good work, seek glory and honour and incorruption, life eternal;

2:8
but to them that are of contention, and that obey not the truth, but give credit to iniquity, wrath and indignation.




2:9
Tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man that worketh evil, of the Jew first and of the Greek:

2:10
but glory and honour and peace to every one that worketh good, to the Jew first and to the Greek.

2:11
For there is no acception of persons with God.

2:12
For whosoever have sinned without the Law, without the Law shall perish: and whosoever have sinned in the Law, by the Law shall be judged.


2:13
For not the hearers of the Law are just with God: but the doers of the Law shall be justified.


2:14
For when the Gentiles which have not the Law, naturally do those things that are of the Law; the same not having the Law, themselves are a law to themselves:

2:17
But if thou be surnamed a Jew, and restest in the Law, and doest glory in God,








2:21
Thou therefore that teachest another, teachest not thyself: that preachest, men ought not to steal, thou stealest:


2:22
that sayest men should not commit adultery, thou committest adultery: that abhorrest idols, thou doest sacrilege:


2:23
that doest glory in the Law, thou by prevarication of the Law doest dishonour God.

2:24
( For the name of God through you is blasphemed among the Gentiles, as it is written.)

2:25
Circumcision indeed profiteth, if thou observe the Law: but if thou be a prevaricator of the Law, thy circumcision is become prepuce.



2:26
If then the prepuce keep the justices of the Law; shall not his prepuce be reputed for circumcision?

2:27
and shall not that which of nature is prepuce, fulfilling the Law, judge thee, that by the letter and circumcision art a prevaricator of the Law?

2:28
For not he that is in open shew, is a Jew, nor that which is in open shew, in the flesh, is circumcision:

2:29
but he that is in secret, is a Jew; and the circumcision of the heart, in spirit, not in the letter: whose praise is not of men, but of God.



