8:1
And we do you to understand, brethren, the grace of God, that is given in the Churches of Macedonia,

8:2
that in much experience of tribulation they had aboundance of joy, & their very deep poverty abounded unto the riches of their simplicity,

8:3
for according to their power (I give them testimony) and above their power they were willing,


8:5
And not as we hoped, but their own selves they gave, first to our Lord, then to us by the will of God:


8:7
But as in all things you abound in faith, and word, & knowledge, & all carefulness, moreover also in your charity toward us, that in this grace also you may abound.

8:8
Ispeak not as commanding: but by the carefulness of others, approving also the good disposition of your charity.

8:9
For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that for you he was made poor, whereas he was rich; that by his poverty you might be rich.

8:10
And in this point I give counsel: for this is profitable for you, which have begun not only to do, but also to be willing, from the year past:


8:11
But now perform ye it also in deed: that as your mind is prompt to be willing, so it may be also to perform, of that which you have.


8:12
For if the will be prompt, it is accepted according to that which it hath, not according to that which it hath not.


8:13
For not that other should have ease, and you tribulation: but by an equality.

8:14
Let in this present time your aboundance supply their want: that their aboundance also may supply your want, that there be an equality



8:15
as it is written: He that had much, abounded not: and he that had little, wanted not.


8:16
And thanks be to God, that hath given the self-same carefulness for you in the heart of Titus,


8:17
for that he admitted indeed exhortation: but being more careful, of his own will he went unto you.

8:18
We have sent also with him the brother, whose praise is in the Gospel through all the churches:

8:19
& not only that, but also he was ordained of the churches fellow of our peregrination, for this grace which is ministered of us to the glory of our Lord, and our determined will:


8:20
avoiding this, lest any man might reprehend us in this fullness that is ministered of us.


8:21
For we provide good things not only before God, but also before men.

8:22
And we have sent with them our brother also, whom we have proved in many things often to be careful: but now much more careful, for the great confidence in you,

8:23
either for Titus which is my fellow and coadjutor toward you, or our brethren Apostles of the Churches, the glory of Christ.


8:24
The declaration therefore which is of your charity and our glorying for you, declare ye toward them in the face of the churches.

