12:1
IF I must glory (it is not expedient indeed) but I will come to the visions & revelations of our Lord.


12:2
I know a man in Christ above fourteen years ago (whether in the body, I know not, or out of the body, I know not: God doth know) such a one rapt even to the third Heaven.






12:3
And I know such a man (whether in the body, or out of the body, I know not; God doth know)





12:5
For such an one I will glory: but for myself I will glory nothing, saving in my infirmities.


12:6
For and if I will glory, I shall not be foolish: for I shall say truth. But I spare, lest any man should esteem me above that which he seeth in me, or heareth any thing of me.




12:7
And lest the greatness of the revelations might extol me, there was given me a prick of my flesh, an angel of Satan, to buffet me.


12:8
For the which thing thrice I besought our Lord, that it might depart from me.

12:9
And he said to me: My grace sufficeth thee, for power is perfited in infirmity. Gladly therefore will I glory in mine infirmity, that the power of Christ may dwell in me.





12:10
For the which cause I please myself in infirmities, in contumelies, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses for Christ. For when I am weak, then am I mighty.


12:11
I am become foolish: you have compelled me. For I ought to have been commended of you: for I have been nothing less than they that are above measure Apostles: although I am nothing.




12:12
Yet the signs of my Apostleship have been done upon you in all patience, in signs & wonders & mighty deeds.

12:13
For what is there that you have had less than the other churches; but that I myself have not burdened you? Pardon me this injury.


12:14
Behold, now the third time I am ready to come to you; & I will not be burdenous unto you. For I seek not the things that are yours, but you. For neither ought the children lay up treasures for the parents, but the parents for the children.




12:15
But I most gladly will bestow, & will myself moreover be bestowed for your souls: although loving you more, I am loved less.



12:16
But be it so: I have not burdened you: but being crafty, I took you by guile.


12:17
Have I circumvented you by any of them whom I sent to you?

12:18
I requested Titus, and I sent with him a brother. Did Titus circumvent you? walked we not with one spirit? not in the self-same steps?





12:19
Of old think you that we excuse ourselves to you? Before God, in Christ we speak: but all things (my dearest) for your edifying.



12:20
For I fear lest perhaps when I come, I find you not such as I would: and I be found of you, such an one as you would not. Lest perhaps contentions, emulations, stomachings, dissensions, detractions, whisperings, swellings, seditions be among you.





