7:1
Having therefore these promises, my dearest, let us cleanse ourselves from all inquination of the flesh and spirit, perfiting sanctification in the fear of God.

7:2
Receive us.
We have hurt no man,
we have corrupted no man,
we have circumvented no man.

7:3
Ispeak not to your condemnation.
For I said before that you are in our hearts to die together and to live together.

7:4
Much is my confidence with you,
much is my glorying for you.
I am replenished with consolation;
I do exceedingly abound in joy in all our tribulation.

7:5
For also when we were come into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but we suffered all tribulation:
without, combats;
within, fears.

7:6
But God that comforteth the humble, did comfort us, in the coming of Titus.

7:7
And not only in his coming,
but also in the consolation, wherewith he was comforted among you,
reporting to us your desire, your weeping, your emulation for me,
so that I rejoiced the more.

7:8
For although I made you sorry in an epistle, it repenteth me not:
albeit it repented me, seeing that the same epistle (although but for a time) did make you sorry.

7:9
Now I am glad:
not because you were made sorry, but because you were made sorry to penance. For you were made sorry according to God, that in nothing you should suffer detriment by us.

7:10
For the sorrow that is according to God, worketh penance unto salvation that is stable:
but the sorrow of the world worketh death.

7:11
For behold this very thing, that you were made sorry according to God, how great carefulness it worketh in you:
yea defence, yea indignation, yea fear, yea desire, yea emulation, yea revenge, in all things you have shewed yourselves to be undefiled in the matter.

7:12
Therefore although I wrote to you,
not for him that did the injury,
nor for him that suffered: but to manifest our carefulness that we have for you before God,

7:13
therefore we are comforted.
But in our consolation, we did the more aboundantly rejoice upon the joy of Titus, because his spirit was refreshed of all you.

7:14
And if to him I gloried any thing of you, I am not confounded:
but as we spake all things to you in truth, so also our glorying that was to Titus, is made a truth. And his bowels are more aboundantly toward you:
remembering the obedience of you all, how with fear and trembling you received him.

7:16
I rejoice that in all things I have confidence in you.

7:18


