5:2
For in this also do we groan, desirous to be over-clothed with our habitation that is from Heaven:

5:3
yet so, if we be found clothed, not naked.

5:4
For we also that are in this tabernacle, groan being burdened: because we would not be spoiled, but over-clothed, that that which is mortal might be swallowed up of life.



5:5
And he that maketh us of this same, is God, who hath given us the pledge of the Spirit.

5:6
Being bold therefore always, and knowing that while we are in the body, we are pilgrims from God,




5:9
And therefore we endeavour, whether absent or present, to please him.

5:10
For we must all be manifested before the judgement seat of Christ, that every one may receive the proper things of the body, according as he hath done, either good or evil.


5:11
Knowing therefore the fear of our Lord we use persuasion to men: but to God we are manifest. And I hope also that in your consciences we are manifest.



5:12
We commend not ourselves again to you, but give you occasion to glory for us: that you may have against them that glory in face, and not in heart.



5:13
For whether we exceed in mind, to God: or whether we be sober, to you.


5:14
For the charity of Christ urgeth us; judging this, that if one died for all, then all were dead.

5:15
And Christ died for all: that they also which live, may not now live to themselves, but to him that died for them and rose again.



5:16
Therefore we from hence-forth know no man according to the flesh. And if we have known Christ according to the flesh: but now we know him no more.


5:17
If then any be in Christ a new creature: the old are passed, behold all things are made new.



5:18
But all of God, who hath reconciled us to himself by Christ: and hath given us the ministry of reconciliation.


5:20
For Christ therefore we are legates, God as it were exhorting by us. For Christ we beseech you, be reconciled to God.



5:21
Him that knew no sin, for us he made sin: that we might be made the justice of God in him.


