9:1
And calling together the twelve Apostles, he gave them virtue and power over all devils, and to cure maladies.

9:2
And he sent them to preach the Kingdom of God; and to heal the sick.

9:3
And he said to them: Take nothing for the way, neither rod, nor scrip, nor bread, nor money, neither have two coats.



9:4
And into whatsoever house you enter, tarry there, and thence do not depart.


9:5
And whosoever shall not receive you, going forth out of that city, shake off the dust also of your feet for a testimony upon them.

9:6
And going forth they went a circuit from town to town evangelizing and curing every-where.

9:7
And Herod the Tetrarch heard all things that were done by him; and he staggered because it was said of some, That John was risen from the dead.





9:9
And Herod said: John I have beheaded; but who is this of whom I hear such things? And he sought for to see him.




9:10
And the Apostles being returned, reported to him whatsoever they did: and taking them he retired apart into a desert place, which belongeth to Beth-saida.


9:11
Which the multitudes understanding, followed him & he received them, and spake to them of the Kingdom of God, and them that had need of cure he healed.




9:12
And the day began to draw towards an end. And the Twelve coming near, said to him: Dismiss the multitudes, that going into towns and villages here about, they may have lodging, and find meats; because here we are in a desert place.






9:13
And he said to them: Give you them to eat. But they said: We have no more but five loaves and two fishes; unless perhaps we should go & buy meats for all this multitude.






9:14
And there were men almost five thousand. And he said to his Disciples: Make them sit down by companies fifty and fifty.



9:15
And so they did. And they made all sit down.


9:16
And taking the five loaves and the two fishes, he looked up unto Heaven, and blessed them; and he brake, and distributed to his Disciples, for to set before the multitudes.





9:17
And they did all eat, and had their fill. And there was taken up that which remained to them, twelve baskets of fragments.



9:18
And it came to pass; when he was alone praying, his Disciples also were with him; and he asked them saying: Whom do the multitudes say that I am?



9:19
But they answered, and said: John the Baptist; and some, Elias; but some, that one of the Prophets before time, is risen.




9:20
And he said to them: But whom say ye that I am? Simon Peter answering, said: The Christ of God.




9:21
But he rebuking them, commanded that they should tell this to no man,

9:22
saying: That the Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the Ancients and chief Priests and Scribes, and be killed, and the third day rise again.

9:23
And he said to all: If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me.




9:24
For he that will save his life, shall lose it; for he that shall lose his life for my sake, shall save it.


9:25
For what profit hath a man if he gain the whole world, and lose himself, and cast away himself?




9:26
For he that shall be ashamed of me and of my words, him the Son of man shall be ashamed of, when he shall come in his majesty, and his Father's, and of the holy Angels.


9:27
And I say to you assuredly: There be some standing here that shall not taste death, till they see the Kingdom of God.



9:28
And it came to pass after these words almost eight days, and he took Peter and James and John, and went into a mountain to pray.




9:29
And whiles he prayed, the shape of his countenance was altered: and his raiment white and glistering.



9:30
And behold two men talked with him. And they were Moyses and Elias,



9:32
But Peter and they that were with him, were heavy with sleep. And awaking, they saw his majesty, and the two men that stood with him.


9:33
And it came to pass, when they departed from him, Peter said to Jesus: Master, it is good for us to be here; and let us make three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moyses, and one for Elias: not knowing what he said.







9:34
And as he spake these things, there came a cloud, and overshadowed them: and they feared, when they entered into the cloud.



9:35
And a voice was made out of the cloud, saying: This is my beloved Son, hear him.



9:36
And whiles the voice was made, Jesus was found alone. And they held their peace, and told no man in those days any of these things which they had seen.



9:37
And it came to pass the day following, when they came down from the mountain, there met him a great multitude.

9:38
And behold a man of the multitude cried out, saying: Master, I beseech thee, look upon my son because he is mine only one.



9:39
And lo, the spirit taketh him, and he suddenly cryeth, and he dasheth him, and teareth him that he foameth, and with much ado departeth renting him.





9:40
And I desired thy Disciples to cast him out, and they could not.


9:41
And Jesus answering said: O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you and suffer you? Bring hither thy son.




9:42
And when he came to him, the devil dashed, and tore him. And Jesus rebuked the unclean Spirit, and healed the lad, and rendered him to his father.


9:43
And all were astonished at the might of God; and all marveling at all things that he did, he said to his Disciples:



9:44
Lay you in your hearts these words, for it shall come to pass that the Son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men.




9:45
But they did not know this word, and it was covered before them, that they perceived it not. And they were afraid to ask him of this word.




9:46
And there entered a cogitation into them, which of them should be greater.

9:47
But Jesus seeing the cogitations of their heart, took a child and set him by him,


9:48
and said to them, whosoever receiveth this child in my name, receiveth me, and whosoever receiveth me, receiveth him that sent me. For he that is the lesser among you all, he is the greater.



9:49
And John answering said: Master, we saw a certain man casting out devils in thy name, and we prohibited him, because he followeth not with us.



9:50
And Jesus said to him: Prohibit not. For he that is not against you, is for you.



9:51
And it came to pass, whiles the days of his assumption were accomplishing, and he fixed his face to go into Jerusalem.



9:52
And he sent messengers before his face; and going they entered into a city of the Samaritans to prepare for him.



9:53
And they received him not, because his face was to go to Jerusalem.

9:54
And when his Disciples James and John had seen it, they said: Lord wilt thou we say that fire come down from Heaven and consume them?


9:55
And turning, he rebuked them, saying: You know not of what spirit you are.

9:56
The Son of man came not to destroy souls, but to save. And they went into another town.

9:57
And it came to pass as they walked in the way, a certain man said to him: I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest.



9:58
Jesus said to him: The foxes have holes, and the fowls of the air nests; but the Son of man hath not where to repose his head.



9:59
But he said to another: Follow me. And he said: Lord, permit me first to go, and to bury my father.




9:60
And Jesus said to him: Let the dead bury their dead; but go thou, set forth the Kingdom of God.




9:61
And another said: I will follow thee Lord, but permit me first to take my leave of them that are at home.



9:62
Jesus said to him: No man putting his hand to the plough, and looking back, is apt for the Kingdom of God.


