16:1
And he said also to his Disciples: There was a certain rich man that had a bailiff: & he was ill reported of unto him, as he that had wasted his goods.




16:2
And he called him, and said to him: What hear I this of thee? Render account of thy bailiffship: for now thou canst no more be bailiff.





16:3
And the bailiff said within himself: What shall I do, because my lord taketh away from me the bailiffship? Dig I am not able, to beg I am ashamed.




16:4
I know what I will do, that when I shall be removed from the bailiffship, they may receive me into their houses.


16:5
Therefore calling together every one of his lord's debters, he said to the first: How much doest thou owe my lord?


16:6
But he saith: An hundred pipes of oil. And he said to him: Take thy bill and sit down, quickly write fifty.






16:7
After that he said to another: But thou, how much doest thou owe? Who said: An hundreth quarters of wheat. He said to him: Take thy bill, and write eighty.







16:8
And the lord praised the bailiff of iniquity, because he had done wisely: for the children of this world, are wiser than the children of light in their generation.



16:9
And I say to you: Make unto you friends of the mammon of iniquity that when you fail, they may receive you into the eternal tabernacles.



16:10
He that is faithful in the least, is faithful in the greater also: and he that is unjust in little, is unjust in the greater also.


16:11
If then you have not been faithful in the unjust mammon, with that which is the true who may credit you?

16:12
And if you have not been faithful in other men's, that which is yours, who will give you?

16:13
No servant can serve two masters; for either he shall hate the one, and love the other; or cleave to one, and contemn the other. You cannot serve God and mammon.






16:14
And the Pharisees which were covetous, heard all these things: and they derided him.


16:15
And he said to them: You are they that justify yourselves before men, but God knoweth your hearts, because that which is high to men, is abomination before God.




16:16
The Law and the Prophets, unto John. From that time the Kingdom of God is evangelized, and every one doth force toward it.



16:17
And it is easier for Heaven and earth to pass, than one tittle of the law to fall.

16:18
Every one that dismisseth his wife, and marrieth another, committeth adultery: and he that marrieth her that is dismissed from her husband, committeth adultery.


16:19
There was a certain rich man, & he was clothed with purple and silk: and he fared every day magnifically.



16:20
And there was a certain beggar called Lazarus, that lay at his gate, full of sores:

16:21
desiring to be filled of the crumbs, that fell from the rich man's table, but the dogs also came, and licked his sores.


16:22
And it came to pass that the beggar died, and was carried of the Angels into Abraham's bosom. And the rich man also died: and he was buried in hell.



16:23
And lifting up his eyes, when he was in torments, he saw Abraham a far off, and Lazarus in his bosom:

16:24
and he crying said: Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger into water for to cool my tongue, because I am tormented in this flame.






16:25
And Abraham said to him: Son, remember that thou didst receive good things in thy life time, and Lazarus likewise evil: but now he is comforted, and thou art tormented.




16:26
And beside all these things, between us and you there is fixed a great chaos: that they which will pass from hence to you, may not, neither go from thence hither.


16:27
And he said: Then, father, I beseech thee that thou wouldest send him unto my father's house, for I have five brethren,





16:29
And Abraham said to him: They have Moyses and the Prophets: let them hear them.



16:30
But he said: No, father Abraham, but if some man shall go from the dead to them, they will do penance.



16:31
And he said to him: If they hear not Moyses and the Prophets, neither if one shall rise again from the dead, will they believe.


