4:1
And Jesus full of the Holy Ghost, returned from Jordan, & was driven in the spirit into the desert.



4:2
forty days, and was tempted of the devil. And he did eat nothing in those days; and when they were ended, he was an hungered.


4:3
And the devil said to him: If thou be the Son of God, say to this stone that it be made bread.


4:4
And Jesus made answer unto him: It is written, That not in bread alone shall man live, but in every word of God.



4:5
And the devil brought him into an high mountain, and shewed him all the kingdoms of the whole world in a moment of time;



4:6
and he said to him: To thee will I give this whole power, and the glory of them; for to me they are delivered, and to whom I will, I do give them.


4:7
Thou therefore if thou wilt adore before me, they shall all be thine.

4:8
And Jesus answering said to him: It is written, Thou shalt adore the Lord thy God & him only shalt thou serve.




4:9
And he brought him into Jerusalem, & set him upon the pinnacle of the Temple; and he said to him: If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself from hence downward.




4:10
For it is written, that He hath given his Angels charge of thee, that they preserve thee:




4:12
And Jesus answering said to him: It is said, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.



4:13
And all the tentation being ended, the devil departed from him until a time.

4:14
And Jesus returned in the force of the spirit into Galilee, and the fame went forth through the whole country of him.


4:15
And he taught in their Synagogues, and was magnified of all.


4:16
And he came to Nazareth where he was brought up: and he entered according to his custom on the Sabboth day into the Synagogue; and he rose up to read.



4:17
And the book of Esay the Prophet was delivered unto him. And as he unfolded the book, he found the place where it was written:


4:18
The Spirit of the Lord upon me, for which he anointed me, to evangelize unto the poor he sent me, to heal the contrite of heart,


4:20
And when he had folded the book, he rendered it to the minister, and sat down. And the eyes of all in the Synagogue were bent upon him.



4:21
And he began to say unto them: That this day is fulfilled this scripture in your ears.


4:22
And all gave testimony to him; and they marveled in the words of grace that proceeded from his mouth, and they said: Is not this Joseph's son?




4:23
And he said to them: Certes you will say to me this similitude, Physician, cure thyself: as great things as we have heard done in Capharnaum, do also here in thy country.




4:24
And he said: Amen I say to you, that no Prophet is accepted in his own country.


4:25
In truth I say to you, there were many widows in the days of Elias in Israel, when the Heaven was shut three years and six months, when there was a great famine made in the whole earth:


4:26
And to none of them was Elias sent, but into Sarepta of Sidon, to a widow woman.

4:27
And there were many lepers in Israel under Elisæus the Prophet; and none of them was made clean but Naaman the Syrian.


4:28
And all in the Synagogue were filled with anger, hearing these things.

4:29
And they rose, and cast him out of the city: and they brought him to the edge of the hill, where upon their city was built, that they might throw him down headlong.




4:30
But he passing through the midst of them, went his way.

4:31
And he went down into Capharnaum a city of Galilee; and there he taught them on the Sabboths.


4:32
And they were astonished at his doctrine; because his talk was in power.

4:33
And in the Synagogue there was a man having an unclean devil, and he cried out with a loud voice.


4:34
Saying: Let be, what to us and thee Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Saint of God.





4:35
And Jesus rebuked him, saying: Hold thy peace, & go out of him. And when the devil had thrown him into the midst, he went out of him, and hurted him nothing.





4:36
And there came fear upon all, and they talked together one with another, saying: What word is this, that in power and virtue he commandeth the unclean spirits, and they go out?





4:37
And the fame of him was published into every place of the country.

4:38
And Jesus rising up out of the Synagogue, entered into Simon's house. And Simon's wife's mother was holden with a great fever; and they besought him for her.



4:39
And standing over her, he commanded the fever, and it left her. And incontinent rising, she ministered to them.



4:40
And when the sun was down, all that had diseased of sundry maladies, brought them to him. But he imposing hands upon every one, cured them.


4:41
And devils went out from many, crying and saying: That thou art the Son of God. And rebuking them he suffered them not to speak, that they knew he was Christ.




4:42
And when it was day, going forth he went into a desert place; & the multitudes sought him, and came even unto him; and they held him that he should not depart from them.





4:43
To whom he said: That to other cities also must I evangelize the Kingdom of God; because therefore I was sent.


4:44
And he was preaching in the Synagogues of Galilee.

