12:1
And when great multitudes stood about him, so that they trod one another, he began to say to his Disciples: Take good heed of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.




12:2
For nothing is hid, that shall not be revealed: nor secret, that shall not be known.


12:3
For the things that you have said in darkness, shall be said in the light: and that which you have spoken into the ear in the chambers, shall be preached in the house-tops.


12:4
And I say to you my friends, Be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after this have no more to do.


12:5
But I will shew you whom ye shall fear: fear him who after he hath killed, hath power to cast into hell. Yea I say to you, fear him.




12:6
Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings, and one of them is not forgotten before God?


12:7
Yea the hairs also of your head are all numbered. Fear not therefore: you are more worth than many sparrows.



12:8
And I say to you, Every one that confesseth me before men, the Son of man also will confess him before the Angels of God.


12:9
But he that denieth me before men, shall be denied before the Angels of God.

12:10
And every one that speaketh a word against the Son of man it shall be forgiven him: but he that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost, to him it shall not be forgiven.


12:11
And when they shall bring you into the Synagogues and to Magistrates and Potestates, be not careful in what manner, or what you shall answer, or what you shall say.

12:12
For the Holy Ghost shall teach you in the very hour what you must say.

12:13
And one of the multitude said to him: Master, speak to my brother that he divide the inheritance with me.


12:14
But he said to him: Man, who hath appointed me judge or divider over you?


12:15
And he said to them: See and beware of all avarice: for not in any man's aboundance doth his life consist, of those things which he possesseth.



12:16
And he spake a similitude to them, saying: A certain rich man's field yielded plenty of fruits.


12:17
And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have not whither to gather my fruits?



12:18
And he said: This will I do, I will destroy my barns, and will make greater, and thither will I gather all things that are grown to me, and my goods.






12:19
And I will say to my soul; Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years, take thy rest, eat, drink, make good cheer.





12:20
But God said to him, Thou fool, this night they require thy soul of thee; and the things that thou hast provided, whose shall they be?



12:21
So is he that layeth up treasure to himself, and is not rich to God-ward.

12:22
And he said to his Disciples: Therefore I say to you, Be not careful for your life, what you shall eat; nor for your body, what you shall do on.



12:23
The life is more than the meat, and the body is more than the raiment.

12:24
Consider the ravens, for they sow not, neither do they reap, which neither have storehouse nor barn, and God feedeth them. How much more are you of greater price than they?



12:25
And which of you by caring can add to his stature one cubit?

12:26
If then you be not able to do so much as the least thing, for the rest why are you careful?

12:27
Consider the lilies how they grow: they labour not, neither do they spin. But I say to you, Neither Salomon in all his glory was arrayed as one of these.





12:28
And if the grass that today is in the field, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, God so clotheth; how much more you, O ye of little faith?



12:29
And you, do not seek what you shall eat, or what you shall drink: and be not lifted up on high.


12:30
For all these things the Nations of the world do seek. But your Father knoweth that you have need of these things.


12:31
But seek first the Kingdom of God, and all these things shall be given you besides.


12:32
Fear not little flock, for it hath pleased your Father to give you a Kingdom.


12:33
Sell the things that you possess, and give alms. Make to you purses that wear not, treasure that wasteth not, in Heaven: whither the thief approacheth not, neither doth the moth corrupt.




12:34
For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

12:35
Let your loins be girded, and candles burning in your hands,



12:37
Blessed are those servants, whom when the Lord cometh, he shall find watching. Amen I say to you, that he will gird himself, and make them sit down, and passing will minister unto them.


12:38
And if he come in the second watch, and if in the third watch he come, and so find, blessed are those servants.

12:39
And this know ye, that if the householder did know what hour the thief would come, he would watch verily, and would not suffer his house to be broken up.

12:40
Be you also ready: for at what hour you think not, the Son of man will come.


12:41
And Peter said to him: Lord, doest thou speak this parable to us, or likewise to all?


12:42
And our Lord said: Who (thinkest thou) is a faithful steward and wise, whom the Lord appointeth over his family, to give them in season their measure of wheat?





12:43
Blessed is that servant, whom when the Lord cometh, he shall find so doing.

12:44
Verily I say to you, that over all things which he possesseth, he shall appoint him.

12:45
But if that servant say in his heart, My Lord is long a coming; and shall begin to strike the servants and handmaids, and eat and drink, and be drunk:





12:47
And that servant that knew the will of his Lord, and prepared not himself, & did not according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes.

12:48
But he that knew not, and did things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few. And every one to whom much was given, much shall be required of him: and to whom they committed much, more will they demand of him.



12:49
I came to cast fire on the earth; & what will I, but that it be kindled?


12:50
But I have to be baptized with a baptism: and how am I straitened until it be dispatched?



12:51
Think you that I came to give peace on the earth? No, I tell you, but separation.




12:52
For there shall be from this time, five in one house divided: three against two, and two against three.


12:53
There shall be divided, the father against the son, and the son against his father, the mother against the daughter, and the daughter against the mother, the mother in law against her daughter in law, and the daughter in law against her mother in law.

12:54
And he said also to the multitudes, when you see a cloud rising from the west, by and by you say, A shower cometh, and so it cometh to pass:




12:55
and when the south wind blowing, you say, That there will be heat: & it cometh to pass.


12:56
Hypocrites, the face of the Heaven and of the earth you have skill to discern: but this time how do you not discern?


12:57
And why of yourselves also judge you not that which is just?

12:58
And when thou goest with thy adversary to the Prince, in the way endeavour to be delivered from him: lest perhaps he draw thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the exactor, and the exactor cast thee into prison.




12:59
Isay to thee, thou shalt not go out thence, until thou pay the very last mite.



