2:1
And it came to pass, in those days there came forth an Edict from Cæsar Augustus that the whole world should be enrolled.

2:2
This first enrolling was made by the President of Syria Cyrinus.

2:3
And all went to be enrolled, every one into his own city.



2:4
And Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Jewry, to the city of David that is called Beth-lehem: for because he was of the house and family of David,


2:6
And it came to pass, when they were there, her days were fully come that she should be delivered.


2:7
And she brought forth her first begotten son, and swaddled him in cloths, and laid him down in a manger; because there was not place for them in the inn.




2:8
And there were in the same country shepherds watching, and keeping the night watches over their flock.

2:9
And behold, an Angel of our Lord stood beside them, and the brightness of God did shine round about them, and they feared with a great fear.



2:10
And the Angel said to them: Fear not; for behold I evangelize to you great joy, that shall be to all the people:



2:12
And this shall be a sign to you; You shall find the infant swaddled in cloths, and laid in a manger.


2:13
And suddenly there was with the Angel a multitude of the heavenly army, praising God, and saying,

2:14
Glory in the highest to God: and in earth peace to men of good will.

2:15
And it came to pass, after the Angels departed from them into Heaven, the shepherds spake one to another: Let us go over to Bethlehem, and let us see this word that is done, which our Lord hath shewed to us.






2:16
And they came with speed; and they found Mary and Joseph, and the infant laid in the manger.


2:17
And seeing it, they understood of the word that had been spoken to them concerning this child.

2:18
And all that heard, did marvel; and concerning those things that were reported to them by the shepherds.

2:19
But Mary kept all these words, conferring them in her heart.

2:20
And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God in all things that they had heard, and seen, as it was said to them.



2:21
And after eight days were expired, that the child should be circumcised; his name was called Jesus, which was called by the Angel, before that he was conceived in the womb.




2:22
And after the days were fully ended of her purification according to the law of Moyses, they carried him into Jerusalem, to present him to our Lord




2:25
And behold there was a man in Jerusalem named Simeon, and this man was just and religious, expecting the consolation of Israel: and the Holy Ghost was in him.


2:26
And he had received an answer of the Holy Ghost, that he should not see death unless he saw first the Christ of our Lord.


2:27
And he came in Spirit into the temple. And when his parents brought in the child Jesus, to do according to the custom of the Law for him,




2:28
he also took him into his arms, and blessed God, and said:


2:29
Now Thou doest dismiss thy servant O Lord, according to thy word in peace.


2:33
And his father and mother were marveling upon those things which were spoken concerning him.

2:34
And Simeon blessed them, and said to Mary his mother: Behold this is set unto the ruin, and unto the resurrection of many in Israel, & for a sign which shall be contradicted,




2:35
and thine own soul shall a sword pierce, that out of many hearts cogitations may be revealed.


2:36
And there was Anne a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Aser: she was far striken in days, and had lived with her husband seven years from her virginity.



2:37
And she was a widow until eighty and four years; who departed not from the temple, by fastings and prayers serving night and day.

2:38
And she at the same hour suddenly coming in, confessed to our Lord; and spake of him to all that expected the redemption of Israel.


2:39
And after they had wholly done all things according to the law of our Lord, they returned into Galilee, into their city Nazareth.

2:40
And the child grew, and waxed strong: full of wisdom, and the grace of God was in him.



2:41
And his parents went every year unto Jerusalem, at the solemn day of Pasch.

2:42
And when he was twelve years old, they going up into Jerusalem according to the custom of the festival day;


2:44
And thinking that he was in the company, they came a day's journey, and sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance.


2:45
And not finding him, they returned into Jerusalem, seeking him.

2:46
And it came to pass, after three days they found him in the temple sitting in the midst of the Doctors, hearing them and asking them.

2:47
And all were astonished that heard him, upon his wisdom & answers.

2:48
And seeing him, they wondered. And his mother said to him: Son, why hast thou so done to us? Behold thy father and I sorrowing did seek thee.




2:49
And he said to them: What is it that you sought me? Did you not know, that I must be about those things which are my Father's?



2:50
And they understood not the word that he spake unto them.

2:51
And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth; and was subject to them. And his mother kept all these words in her heart.




2:52
And Jesus proceeded in wisdom and age, and grace with God and men.

