3:1
And in the fifteenth year of the empire of Tiberius Cæsar, Pontius Pilate being Governor of Jewry, and Herod being Tetrarch of Galilee, and Philip his brother Tetrarch of Iturea and the country Trachonitis, and Lysanias Tetrarch of Abilina,

3:3
And he came into all the country of Jordan, preaching the baptism of penance unto remission of sins; as it is written in the book of the sayings of Esay the Prophet:

3:4
A voice of one crying in the desert; prepare the way of our Lord, make straight his paths.



3:5
Every valley shall be filled; and every mountain and hill shall be made low, and crooked things shall become straight; and rough ways, plain:



3:6
And all flesh shall see the Salvation of God.

3:7
He said therefore to the multitudes that went forth to be baptized of him: Ye vipers' broods, who hath shewed you to flee from the wrath to come?



3:8
Yield therefore fruits worthy of penance; and do ye not begin to say, we have Abraham, to our father. For I tell you, that God is able of these stones to raise up children to Abraham.




3:9
And now the axe is put to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that yieldeth not good fruit, shall be cut down, and cast into fire.



3:10
And the multitudes asked him, saying: What shall we do then?


3:11
And he answering, said unto them: He that hath two coats, let him give to him that hath not; and he that hath meat, let him do likewise.



3:12
And the Publicans also came to be baptized, and said to him: Master, what shall we do?




3:13
But he said to them: Do nothing more than that which is appointed you.


3:14
And the soldiers also asked him, saying: What shall we also do? And he said to them: Vex not, neither calumniate any man; and be content with your stipends.






3:15
And the people imagining, and all men thinking in their hearts of John, lest perhaps he were Christ:



3:16
John answered, saying unto all: I indeed baptize you with water, but there shall come a mightier than I, whose latchet of his shoes I am not worthy to loose; he shall baptize you in the Holy Ghost and fire:



3:17
whose fan is in his hand, and he will purge his floor; and will gather the wheat into his barn, but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire.




3:18
Many other things also exhorting did he evangelize to the people.

3:19
And Herod the Tetrarch, when he was rebuked of him for Herodias his brother's wife, and for all the evils which Herod did:


3:21
And it came to pass when all the people was baptized, Jesus also being baptized and praying, Heaven was opened:



3:22
And the Holy Ghost descended in corporal shape as a dove upon him: and a voice from Heaven was made: Thou art my beloved Son, in thee I am well pleased.




3:23
And Jesus himself was beginning to be about thirty years old: as it was thought, the son of Joseph, who was of Heli,



