18:1
And after these things I saw another Angel coming down from heaven, having great power:
and the earth was illuminated of his glory.

18:2
And he cried out in force, saying:
Fallen fallen is Babylon the great:
and it is become the habitation of devils, and the custody of every unclean spirit, & the custody of every unclean & hateful bird:
because all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication:
and the kings of the earth have fornicated with her:
and the merchants of the earth were made rich by the virtue of her delicacies.

18:4
And I heard another voice from heaven, saying:
Go out from her my people:
that you be not partakers of her sins, and receive not of her plagues.
Because her sins are come even to heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities.

18:6
Render to her as she also hath rendered to you:
and double ye double according to her works:
In the cup wherein she hath mingled,
mingle ye double unto her.

18:7
As much as she hath glorified herself, & hath been in delicacies, so much give her torment and mourning: because she saith in her heart,
I sit a queen,
and widow I am not,
and mourning I shall not see.

18:8
Therefore in one day shall her plagues come, death, and mourning, and famine, & with fire she shall be burnt:
because God is strong that shall judge her.

18:9
And the kings of the earth,
which have fornicated with her, & have lived in delicacies, shall weep,
and bewail themselves upon her,
when they shall see the smoke of her burning:

18:10
standing far off for the fear of her torments, saying:
Woe, woe, that great city Babylon, that strong city: because in one hour is thy judgement come.

18:11
And the merchants of the earth shall weep, & mourn upon her:
because no man shall buy their merchandise any more, merchandise of gold and silver and precious stone:
and of pearl, and fine linen, and purple, and silk, & scarlet and all Thyine wood, and all vessels of ivory, and all vessels of precious stone and of brass and iron and marble, and cinnamon, and of odours, and ointment, and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and flour, & wheat, and beasts, and sheep, and horses, and chariots, & slaves, and souls of men.

18:14
And the apples of the desire of thy soul are departed from thee,
and all fat and goodly things are perished from thee,
and they shall no more find them.

18:15
The merchants of these things which are made rich, shall stand far from her for fear of her torments, weeping and mourning,

18:16
& saying: Woe, woe, that great city, which was clothed with silk, and purple, and scarlet, and was gilted with gold, and precious stone,
and pearls: because in one hour are so great riches made desolate: and every governor,
& every one that saileth into the lake,
and the ship-men,
and they that work in the sea, stood a far off,

18:18
and cried seeing the place of her burning, saying: What other is like to this great city?

18:19
And they threw dust upon their heads, and cried weeping and mourning, saying:
Woe, woe, that great city, in the which all were made rich that had ships in the sea, of her prices:
because in one hour she is desolate.

18:20
Rejoice over her, heaven, and ye holy Apostles and Prophets: because God hath judged your judgement of her.

18:21
And one strong Angel took up as it were a great millstone, and threw it into the sea,
saying:
With this violence shall Babylon that great city be thrown,
and shall now be found no more.

18:22
And the voice of harpers, and of Musicians, and of them that sing on shalm and trumpet,
shall no more be heard in thee, & every artificer of every art shall be found no more in thee,
and the noise of the mill shall no more be heard in thee,

18:23
and the light of the lamp shall no more shine in thee,
& the voice of the bridegroom and the bride shall no more be heard in thee: because thy merchants were the princes of the earth,
because all nations have erred in thine enchantments.

18:24
And in her is found the blood of the Prophets and Saints, and of all that were slain in the earth.

