12:1
And a great sign appeared in heaven;
a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, & on her head a crown of twelve stars:

12:2
and being with child,
she cried also travailing,
and is in anguish to be delivered.


12:3
And there was seen another sign in heaven,
and behold a great red dragon having seven heads,
& ten horns:
and on his heads seven diadems,


12:4
and his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and cast them to the earth: and the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered;
that when she should be delivered, he might devour her son.

12:5
And she brought forth a man child, who was to govern all nations in an iron rod;
& her son was taken up to God and to his throne,
& the woman fled into the wilderness where she had a place prepared of God,
that there they might feed her a thousand two hundred sixty days.

12:7
And there was made a great battle in heaven,
Michael and his Angels fought with the dragon,
and the dragon fought and his Angels:

12:8
and they prevailed not,
neither was their place found any more in heaven.

12:9
And that great dragon was cast forth, the old serpent, which is called the devil and Satan,
which seduceth the whole world:
and he was cast into the earth, & his Angels were thrown down with him.

12:10
And I heard a great voice in heaven saying:
Now is there made salvation and force, and the Kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ: because the accuser of our brethren is cast forth, who accused them before the sight of our God day and night.

12:11
And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony,
and they loved not their lives even unto death.

12:12
Therefore rejoice,
o heavens,
and you that dwell therein.
Woe to the earth & to the sea, because the devil is descended to you, having great wrath, knowing that he hath a little time.

12:13
And after the dragon saw that he was thrown into the earth, he persecuted the woman which brought forth the man-child:

12:14
and there were given to the woman two wings of a great eagle,
that she might fly into the desert unto her place, where she is nourished for a time & times, & half a time, from the face of the serpent.

12:15
And the serpent cast out of his mouth after the woman, water as it were a flood:
that he might make her to be carried away with the flood.

12:16
And the earth holp the woman,
and the earth opened her mouth,
and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth.

12:17
And the dragon was angry against the woman:
and went to make battle with the rest of her seed,
which keep the commandments of God,
and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.

12:18
And he stood upon the sand of the sea.

