9:1
And the fifth Angel sounded with the trumpet, & I saw a star to have fallen from heaven upon the earth, and there was given to him the key of the pit of bottomless depth.



9:2
And he opened the pit of the bottomless depth: and the smoke of the pit ascended, as the smoke of a great furnace: and the sun was darkened and the air with the smoke of the pit.



9:3
And from the smoke of the pit there issued forth locusts into the earth. And power was given to them, as the scorpions of the earth have power:


9:4
and it was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth nor any green thing, nor any tree: but only men which have not the sign of God in their foreheads.

9:5
And it was given unto them that they should not kill them: but that they should be tormented five months: and their torments as the torments of a scorpion when he striketh a man.



9:6
And in those days men shall seek for death, and shall not find it: and they shall desire to die, & death shall fly from them.




9:7
And the similitudes of the locusts, like to horses prepared into battle: and upon their heads as it were crowns like to gold: and their faces as the faces of men.



9:8
And they had hair as the hair of women; & their teeth were as of lion's.


9:9
And they had habergeons as habergeons of iron, and the voice of their wings as the voice of the chariots of many horses running into battle.

9:10
And they had tails like to scorpions, and stings were in their tails: and their power was to hurt men five months.


9:11
And they had over them a king, the Angel of the bottomless depth, whose name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in Greek Apollyon: in Latin having the name Exterminans.


9:12
One woe is gone, & behold two woes come yet after these.


9:13
And the sixth Angel sounded with the trumpet: and I heard one voice from the four horns of the golden altar, which is before the eyes of God,


9:14
saying to the sixth Angel which had the trumpet: Loose the four Angels which are bound in the great river Euphrates.

9:15
And the four Angels were loosed, who were prepared for an hour, & a day, and a month, and a year: that they might kill the third part of men.

9:16
And the number of the army of horse-men was twenty thousand times ten thousand. And I heard the number of them.


9:17
And so I saw the horses in the vision: and they that sat upon them, had habergeons of fire and of hyacinth and brimstone, and the heads of the horses were as it were the heads of lions: and from their mouth proceedeth fire, and smoke, and brimstone.




9:18
And by these three plagues was slain the third part of men, of the fire and of the smoke and of the brimstone, which proceeded from their mouth.

9:19
For the power of the horses is in their mouth, and in their tails. For, their tails be like to serpents, having heads: and in these they hurt.



9:20
And the rest of men which were not slain with these plagues, neither have done penance from the works of their hands, not to adore devils and idols of gold and silver and brass and stone and wood, which neither can see, nor hear, nor walk,



