21:1
And I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven,
and the first earth was gone,
& the sea now is not.

21:2
And I John saw the holy city Jerusalem new descending from heaven, prepared of God, as a bride adorned for her husband.

21:3
And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying:
Behold the tabernacle of God with men,
and he will dwell with them.
And they shall be his people:
and he God with them shall be their God.

21:4
And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes: and death shall be no more,
nor mourning, nor crying, neither shall there be sorrow any more,
which first things,
are gone.

21:5
And he that sat in the throne, said:
Behold I make all things new.
And he said to me:
Write, because these words be most faithful and true.

21:6
And he said to me:
It is done, I am Alpha and Omega:
the beginning and the end.
To him that thirsteth I will give of the fountain of the water of life, gratis.

21:7
He that shall overcome,
shall possess these things,
and I will be his God: and he shall be my son.

21:8
But to the fearful, and incredulous, and execrable, and murderers, and fornicators, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, their part shall be in the pool burning with fire and brimstone,
which is the second death.

21:9
And there came one of the seven Angels that had the vials full of the seven last plagues, and spake with me,
saying: Come,
and I will shew thee the bride,
the wife of the Lamb.

21:10
And he took me up in spirit unto a mountain great and high:
and he shewed me the holy city Jerusalem descending out of heaven from God,

21:11
having the glory of God, and the light thereof like to a precious stone, as it were to the jasper stone, even as crystal.

21:12
And it had a wall great and high, having twelve gates,
and in the gates twelve Angels,
& names written thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel.

21:13
On the East, three gates: and on the North, three gates: and on the South, three gates: and on the West, three gates.

21:14
And the wall of the city having twelve foundations: and in them, twelve names, of the twelve Apostles of the Lamb.

21:15
And he that spake with me, had a measure of a reed, of gold,
to measure the city and the gates thereof, and the wall.

21:16
And the city is situated quadrangle-wise,
and the length thereof is as great as also the breadth:
and he measured the city with the reed for twelve thousand furlongs, & the length and height and breadth thereof be equal.
And he measured the wall thereof of an hundred forty four cubits, the measure of a man which is of an Angel.

21:18
And the building of the wall thereof was of jasper stone:
but the city it-self pure gold, like to pure glass.

21:19
And the foundations of the wall of the city, were adorned with all precious stone.
The first foundation, the jasper:
the second, the sapphire:
the third, the calcedonius:
the fourth, the emerald:

21:20
the fifth, the sardonix:
the sixth, the sardius:
the seventh, the chrysolithus:
the eight, the beryllus:
the ninth, the topazius:
the tenth, the chrysoprasus:
the eleventh, the hyacinth:
the twelfth, the amethyst.

21:21
And the twelve gates: there are twelve pearls, one to every one:
& every gate was of one several pearl.
And the street of the city pure gold, as it were transparent glass.

21:22
And temple I saw not therein.
For our Lord the God omnipotent is the temple thereof, and the Lamb.

21:23
And the city needeth not sun nor moon,
to shine in it.
For the glory of God hath illuminated it,
and the Lamb is the lamp thereof.

21:24
And the Gentiles shall walk in the light of it:
and the kings of the earth shall bring their glory and honour into it.

21:25
And the gates thereof shall not be shut by day:
for there shall be no night there.

21:26
And they shall bring the glory and honour of nations into it.

21:27
There shall not enter into it any polluted thing, nor that doeth abomination and maketh lie, but they that are written in the book of life of the Lamb.

