22:1
And he shewed me a river of living water, clear as crystal, proceeding from the seat of God and of the Lamb.

22:3
And no curse shall be any more: & the seat of God & of the Lamb shall be in it, & his servants shall serve him.



22:4
And they shall see his face: and his name in their foreheads.


22:5
And night shall be no more: and they shall not need the light of lamp, nor the light of the sun, because our Lord God doth illuminate them, and they shall reign for ever and ever.




22:6
And he said to me: These words are most faithful & true. And our Lord the God of the spirits of the Prophets, sent his Angel to shew his servants those things which must be done quickly.



22:7
And behold I come quickly. Blessed is he that keepeth the words of the prophecy of this book.


22:8
And I John which have heard, and seen these things. And after I had heard and seen, I fell down to adore before the feet of the Angel which shewed me these things;






22:9
and he said to me: See thou do not, for I am thy fellow-servant, and of thy brethren the Prophets, and of them that keep the words of this book. Adore God.





22:10
And he saith to me: Seal not the words of the prophecy of this book. For the time is near.



22:11
He that hurteth, let him hurt yet: and he that is in filth, let him be filthy yet: and he that is just, let him be justified yet: and let the holy be sanctified yet.




22:12
Behold I come quickly. And my reward is with me, to render to every man according to his works.


22:13
I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end.

22:15
Without are dogs and sorcerers, and the unchaste, and murderers, and servers of idols, & every one that loveth and maketh a lie.



22:16
I Jesus have sent mine Angel, to testify to you these things in the Churches. I am the root and stock of David, the bright and morning star.


22:17
And the Spirit & the bride say, Come. And he that heareth, let him say, Come. And he that thirsteth, let him come: and he that will, let him take the water of life gratis.






22:18
For I testify to every one hearing the words of the prophecy of this book, If any man shall add to these things, God shall add upon him the plagues written in this book.


22:19
And if any man shall diminish of the words of the book of this prophecy: God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the holy city, and of these things that be written in this book,


22:20
saith he that giveth testimony of these things. Yea I come quickly: Amen. Come Lord Jesus.




22:21
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.

