2:1
And to the Angel of the Church of Ephesus write, Thus saith he which holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, which walketh in the midst of the seven candlesticks of gold:



2:2
I know thy works and labour, and thy patience: & that thou canst not bear evil men, & hast tried them which say themselves to be Apostles, and are not, and hast found them liars:





2:3
and thou hast patience, and hast borne for my name, and hast not fainted.



2:4
But I have against thee a few things, because thou hast left thy first charity.

2:5
Be mindful therefore from whence thou art fallen: and do penance, and do the first works. But if not: I come to thee, & will move thy candlestick out of his place, unless thou do penance.






2:6
But this thou hast, because thou hatest the facts of the Nicolaites, which I also hate.

2:7
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith to the Churches: To him that overcometh, I will give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the Paradise of my God.


2:8
And to the Angel of the Church of Smyrna write: Thus saith the First and the Last, who was dead, and liveth:



2:9
I know thy tribulation and thy poverty, but thou art rich: and thou art blasphemed of them that say themselves to be Jews and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan.





2:10
Fear none of these things which thou shalt suffer. Behold the devil will send some of you into prison that you may be tried: and you shall have tribulation ten days. Be thou faithful until death: and I will give thee the crown of life.






2:11
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith to the Churches: He that shall overcome, shall not be hurt of the second death.


2:12
And to the Angel of the Church of Pergamus write: Thus saith he that hath the sharp two-edged sword:


2:13
I know where thou dwellest, where the seat of Satan is: and thou holdest my name, and hast not denied my faith. And in those days Antipas my faithful witness, who was slain among you, where Satan dwelleth.





2:14
But I have against thee a few things: because thou hast there, them that hold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balac to cast a scandal before the children of Israel, to eat and commit fornication:


2:15
so hast thou also them that hold the doctrine of the Nicolaites.

2:16
In like manner do penance. If not: I will come to thee quickly, and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth.



2:17
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith to the Churches: To him that over cometh I will give the hidden manna, and will give him a white counter, and in the counter, a new name written, which no man knoweth, but he that receiveth it.





2:18
And to the Angel of the Church of Thyatira write: Thus saith the Son of God, which hath eyes as a flame of fire, and his feet like to latten.



2:19
I know thy works, and faith, and thy charity, and ministry, and thy patience and thy last works more than the former.

2:20
But I have against thee a few things: because thou permittest the woman Jezabel, who calleth herself a prophetess, to teach, and to seduce my servants, to fornicate, and to eat of things sacrificed to idols.


2:21
And I gave her a time that she might do penance: & she will not repent from her fornication.


2:22
Behold I will cast her into a bed: and they that commit adultery with her, shall be in very great tribulation, unless they do penance from their works:


2:23
and her children I will kill with death, & all the Churches shall know that I am he that searcheth the reins & hearts, & I will give to every one of you according to his works.



2:24
But I say to you and the rest which are at Thyatira, whosoever have not this doctrine, which have not known the depth of Satan, as they say, I will not cast upon you another weight.




2:25
Yet that which you have, hold till I come.


2:26
And he that shall overcome and keep my works unto the end, I will give him power over the nations,




2:27
and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, and as the vessel of a potter shall they be broken,

2:28
as I also have received of my Father: and I will give him the morning star.


2:29
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith to the Churches.

