5:1
And I saw in the right hand of him that sat upon the throne, a book written within and without, sealed with seven seals.

5:2
And I saw a strong Angel, preaching with a loud voice:
Who is worthy to open the book, & to loose the seals thereof?

5:3
And no man was able neither in heaven nor in earth, nor under the earth, to open the book, nor look on it.

5:4
And I wept much because no man was found worthy to open the book, nor to see it.

5:5
And one of the Seniors said to me:
Weep not;
behold the Lion of the Tribe of Juda, the root of David, hath won, to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof.

5:6
And I saw,
and behold in the midst of the throne and of the four beasts and in the midst of the Seniors, a Lamb standing as it were slain, having seven horns & seven eyes:
which are the seven Spirits of God, sent into all the earth.

5:7
And he came,
and received the book out of the right hand of him that sat in the throne.

5:8
And when he had opened the book, the four beasts and the four and twenty Seniors fell before the Lamb, having every one harps, and golden vials full of odours, which are the prayers of saints:

5:9
And they sang a new canticle, saying:
Thou art worthy o Lord to take the book, and to open the seals thereof: because thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God in thy blood out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation,

5:10
and hast made us to our God a Kingdom and Priests,
and we shall reign upon the earth.

5:11
And I looked,
and heard the voice of many Angels round about the throne,
and of the beasts & of the Seniors: and the number of them was thousands of thousands,

5:12
saying with a loud voice: The Lamb that was slain, is worthy to receive power, and divinity, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, and benediction.

5:13
And every creature that is in heaven, and upon the earth, and under the earth,
and that are in the sea,
and that are therein: all did I hear saying:
To him that sitteth in the throne, and to the Lamb, benediction and honour and glory and power for ever and ever.

5:14
And the four beasts said,
Amen.
And the four and twenty Seniors fell on their faces:
and adored him that liveth for ever and ever.

