16:1
And I heard a great voice out of the temple, saying to the seven Angels: Go, and pour out the seven vials of the wrath of God upon the earth.



16:2
And the first went, and poured out his vial upon the earth, & there was made a cruel & very sore wound upon men that had the character of the beast: and upon them that adored the image thereof.




16:3
And the second Angel poured out his vial upon the sea, and there was made blood as it were of one dead: and every living soul died in the sea.



16:4
And the third poured out his vial upon the rivers and the fountains of waters: and there was made blood.


16:5
And I heard the Angel of the waters, saying: Thou art just, o Lord, which art, and which wast, the holy one, because thou hast judged these things:






16:6
because they have shed the blood of the Saints and Prophets, & thou hast given them blood to drink. For they are worthy.

16:7
And I heard another, saying: Yea Lord God omnipotent, true and just are thy judgements.


16:8
And the fourth Angel poured out his vial upon the sun, and it was given unto him to afflict men with heat and fire:


16:9
and men boiled with great heat, and blasphemed the name of God having power over these plagues, neither did they penance to give him glory.




16:10
And the fifth Angel poured out his vial upon the seat of the beast: and his kingdom was made dark, and they together did eat their tongues for pain:



16:11
and they blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and wounds, and did not penance from their works.


16:12
And the sixth Angel poured out his vial upon that great river Euphrates: and dried up the water thereof that a way might be prepared to the kings from the rising of the sun.



16:13
And I saw from the mouth of the dragon, and from the mouth of the beast, and from the mouth of the false-prophet three unclean spirits in manner of frogs.

16:14
For they are the spirits of devils working signs, and they go forth to the kings of the whole earth to gather them into battle at the great day of the omnipotent God.


16:15
Behold I come as a thief: Blessed is he that watcheth, & keepeth his garments, that he walk not naked, and they see his turpitude.





16:16
And he shall gather them into a place which in Hebrew is called Armagedon.

16:17
And the seventh Angel poured out his vial upon the air, and there came forth a loud voice out of the temple from the throne, saying: It is done.



16:18
And there were made lightnings, and voices, and thunders, and a great earth-quake was made, such an one as never hath been since men were upon the earth, such an earth-quake, so great.




16:19
And the great city was made into three parts: and the cities of the Gentiles fell. And Babylon the great came into memory before God, to give her the cup of wine of the indignation of his wrath.



16:20
And every Island fled, and mountains were not found.


16:21
And great hail like a talent came down from heaven upon men: and men blasphemed God for the plague of the hail: because it was made exceeding great.


