6:1
And I saw that the Lamb had opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four beasts,
saying, as it were the voice of thunder: Come,
and see.

6:2
And I saw:
And behold a white horse,
and he that sat upon him had a bow,
and there was a crown given him,
and he went forth conquering that he might conquer.


6:3
And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second beast, saying:
Come, & see.

6:4
And there went forth another horse,
red: and he that sat thereon, to him it was given that he should take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another,
and a great sword was given to him.

6:5
And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third beast,
saying:
Come,
and see.
And behold a black horse, and he that sat upon him, had a balance in his hand.

6:6
And I heard as it were a voice in the midst of the four beasts saying: Two pounds of wheat for a penny,
and thrice two pounds of barley for a penny,
and wine and oil hurt thou not.

6:7
And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard a voice of the fourth beast, saying:
Come,
& see.

6:8
And behold a pale horse: and he that sat upon him,
his name was death, and hell followed him.
And power was given to him over the four parts of the earth,
to kill with sword, with famine, and with death, and with beasts of the earth.

6:9
And when he had opened the fifth seal: I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God, and for the testimony which they had.

6:10
And they cried with a loud voice,
saying:
How long Lord (holy and true), judgest thou not and revengest thou not our blood of them that dwell on the earth?

6:11
And white stoles were given, to every one of them one;
and it was said to them, that they should rest yet a little time,
till their fellow-servants be complete, and their brethren, that are to be slain even as they.

6:12
And I saw,
when he had opened the sixth seal,
and behold there was made a great earth-quake,
and the sun became black as it were sack-cloth of hair:
and the whole moon became as blood:

6:13
and the stars from heaven fell upon the earth,
as the fig-tree casteth her green figs when it is shaken of a great wind:


6:14
and heaven departed as a book folded together:
and every hill, and Islands were moved out of their places.

6:15
And the kings of the earth, and princes, and tribunes, and the rich, and the strong, and every bond-man, and free-man hid themselves in the dens and the rocks of mountains.

6:16
And they say to the mountains and the rocks:
Fall upon us,
and hide us from the face of him that sitteth upon the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb:

6:17
because the great day of their wrath is come, and who shall be able to stand?

