19:1
After these things I heard as it were the voice of many multitudes in heaven saying, Allelu-ia. Praise, and glory and power is to our God:





19:3
And again they said, Allelu-ia. And her smoke ascendeth for ever and ever.



19:4
And the four and twenty Seniors fell down, and the four beasts, & adored God sitting upon the throne, saying: Amen, Allelu-ia.




19:5
And a voice came out from the throne, saying: Say praise to our God all ye his servants: and you that fear him, little and great.



19:6
And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, & as the voice of great thunders, saying, Allelu-ia: because our Lord God the omnipotent hath reigned.



19:7
Let us be glad and rejoice, and give glory to him: because the marriage of the Lamb is come, & his wife hath prepared herself.





19:8
And it was given to her that she clothe herself with silk glittering and white. For the silk are the justifications of Saints.


19:9
And he said to me: Write, Blessed be they that are called to the supper of the marriage of the Lamb. And he said to me: These words of God, be true.





19:10
And I fell before his feet, to adore him. And he saith to me: See thou do not; I am thy fellow-servant, and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus. Adore God. For the testimony of Jesus, is the spirit of prophecy.







19:11
And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse: and he that sat upon him, was called Faithful and True, and with justice he judgeth & fighteth.





19:12
And his eyes as a flame of fire, and on his head many diadems, having a name written, which no man knoweth but himself.


19:13
And he was clothed with a garment sprinkled with blood: and his name is called, The Word of God.


19:14
And the hosts that are in heaven followed him on white horses clothed in white and pure silk.

19:15
And out of his mouth proceedeth a sharp sword: that in it he may strike the Gentiles. And he shall rule them in a rod of iron: and he treadeth the wine press of the fury of the wrath of God omnipotent.




19:16
And he hath in his garment and in his thigh written, King of Kings And Lord of Lords.


19:17
And I saw one Angel standing in the sun, & he cried with a loud voice saying to all the birds that did fly by the midst of heaven: Come and assemble together to the great supper of God:





19:19
And I saw the beast and the kings of the earth, & their armies gathered to make war with him that sat upon the horse and with his army.

19:20
And the beast was apprehended, and with him the false-prophet: which wrought signs before him, wherewith he seduced them that took the character of the beast, and that adored his image. These two were cast alive into the pool of fire burning also with brimstone.




19:21
And the rest were slain by the sword of him that sitteth upon the horse, which proceedeth out of his mouth: and all the birds were filled with their flesh.


