1:1
Paul the prisoner of Christ Jesus, and brother Timothee: to Philemon the beloved and our coadjutor, and to Appia our dearest sister, and to Archippus our fellow-soldier and to the church which is in thy house.

1:3
Grace to you and peace from God our Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ.

1:4
I give thanks to my God, always making a memory of thee in my prayers, hearing thy charity & faith which thou hast in our Lord Jesus, and toward all the saints:

1:6
that the communication of thy faith may be made evident in the agnition of all good that is in you in Christ Jesus.

1:7
For I have had great joy and consolation in thy charity, because the bowels of the saints have rested by thee brother.

1:8
For the which thing having great confidence in Christ Jesus to command thee that which pertaineth to the purpose: for charity rather I beseech, whereas thou art such an one, as Paul being old and now prisoner also of Jesus Christ.

1:10
I beseech thee for my son whom I have begotten in bands, Onesimus, who hath been sometime unprofitable to thee, but now profitable both to me and thee,

1:12
whom I have sent back to thee.
And do thou receive him as mine own bowels.


1:13
Whom I would have retained with me,
that for thee he might minister to me in the bands of the Gospel:

1:14
but without thy counsel I would do nothing: that thy good might be not as it were of necessity, but voluntary.

1:15
For perhaps therefore he departed for a season from thee,
that thou mightest take him again for ever.

1:16
Now not as a servant, but for a servant, a most dear brother, especially to me, but how much more to thee both in the flesh and in our Lord?

1:17
If therefore thou take me for thy fellow; receive him as myself.

1:18
And if he hath hurt thee any thing or is in thy debt, that impute to me.

1:19
I Paul have written with mine own hand:
I will repay it:
not to say to thee, that thou owest me thine own self also.

1:20
Yea brother.
God grant I may enjoy thee in our Lord.
Refresh my bowels in our Lord.

1:21
Trusting in thy obedience I have written to thee, knowing that thou wilt do above that also which I do say.

1:22
And withal provide me also a lodging.
For I hope by your prayers that I shall be given to you.

1:23
There salute thee Epaphras my fellow-prisoner in Christ Jesus, Mark, Aristarchus, Demas and Luke my coadjutors.

1:25
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Amen.

