3:1
For this cause, I Paul the prisoner of Jesus Christ, for you Gentiles: if yet you have heard the dispensation of the grace of God, which is given me toward you. because according to revelation the sacrament was made known to me, as I have written before in brief: according as you reading may understand my wisdom in the mystery of Christ, which unto other generations was not known to the sons of men, as now it is revealed to his holy Apostles, and Prophets in the Spirit. The Gentiles to be coheirs and concorporate and comparticipant of his promise in Christ Jesus by the Gospel:

3:7
whereof I am made a minister according to the gift of the grace of God, which is given me according to the operation of his power.

3:8
To me the least of all the saints is given this grace, among the Gentiles to evangelize the unsearchable riches of Christ, & to illuminate all men what is the dispensation of the sacrament hidden from worlds in God, who created all things:
that the manifold wisdom of God, may be notified to the Princes & Potestates in the celestials by the Church, according to the prefinition of worlds, which he made in Christ Jesus our Lord. In whom we have affiance and access in confidence by the faith of him.

3:13
For the which cause I desire that you faint not in my tribulations for you, which is your glory.

3:14
For this cause I bow my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom all paternity in the Heavens and in earth is named, that he give you according to the riches of his glory, power to be fortified by his Spirit in the inner man.
Christ to dwell by faith in your hearts, rooted and founded in charity, that you may be able to comprehend with all the saints, what is the breadth,
and length, and height and depth, to know also the charity of Christ,
surpassing knowledge,
that you may be filled unto all the fullness of God.

3:20
And to him that is able to do all things more aboundantly than we desire or understand, according to the power that worketh in us:

3:21
to him be glory in the Church, and in Christ Jesus, unto all generations world without end. Amen.

