4:1
I therefore prisoner in our Lord, beseech you, that you walk worthy of the vocation in which you are called, with all humility and mildness, with patience, supporting one another in charity, careful to keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace.

4:4
One body & one spirit: as you are called in one hope of your vocation.

4:5
One Lord, one faith, one baptism.

4:6
One God and Father of all, which is over all, and by all, & in all us.

4:7
But to every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the donation of Christ.

4:8
For the which he saith:
Ascending on high he led captivity captive:
he gave gifts to men.

4:9
(And that he ascended,
what is it, but because he descended also first into the inferior parts of the earth?

4:10
He that descended, the same is also he that is ascended above all the Heavens, that he might fill all things.) And he gave, some Apostles, & some Prophets, & other-some Evangelists, & other-some Pastors & Doctors, to the consummation of the saints, unto the work of the ministry, unto the edifying of the body of Christ: until we meet all into the unity of faith and knowledge of the Son of God into a perfect man, into the measure of the age of the fullness of Christ: that now we be not children wavering, and carried about with every wind of doctrine in the wickedness of men, in craftiness to the circumvention of error.
But doing the truth in charity, let us in all things grow in him, which is the Head, Christ:

4:16
of whom the whole body being compact and knit together by all juncture of subministration, according to the operation in the measure of every member, maketh the increase of the body unto the edifying of it-self in charity.

4:17
This therefore I say and testify in our Lord:
that now you walk not as also the Gentiles walk in the vanity of their sense,
having their understanding obscured with darkness, alienated from the life of God by the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart, who despairing, have given up themselves to impudicity, unto the operation of all uncleanness, unto avarice.

4:20
But you have not so learned Christ:
if yet you have heard him,
& have been taught in him, (as the truth is in Jesus.) Lay you away, according to the old conversation the old man, which is corrupted according to the desires of error.

4:23
And be renewed in the spirit of your mind:
and put on the new man which according to God is created in justice, and holiness of the truth.

4:25
For the which cause laying away lying, speak ye truth every one with is neighbour, because we are members one of another.

4:26
Be angry and sin not.
Let not the sun go down upon your anger.


4:27
Give not place to the devil.

4:28
He that stole, let him now not steal:
but rather let him labour in working with his hands that which is good, that he may have whence to give unto him that suffereth necessity. All naughty speech let it not proceed out of your mouth:
but if there be any good to the edifying of the faith, that it may give grace to the hearers.

4:30
And contristate not the holy Spirit of God:
in which you are signed unto the day of redemption.

4:31
Let all bitterness, and anger, and indignation, and clamour, and blasphemy be taken away from you with all malice.

4:32
And be gentle one to another,
merciful,
pardoning one another, as also God in Christ hath pardoned you.

